# United Kingdom
## Individual - Other tax credits and incentives
Last reviewed - 15 December 2024
## Investing in business
### **Business Asset Disposal Relief (BADR) - formerly Entrepreneurs' Relief (ER)**
BADR applies to an individual’s gain in respect of a disposal of certain assets and provides a 10% rate of CGT on qualifying lifetime gains rather than the main CGT rate (normally 20%). As announced in the Budget, the rate will increase to 14% from 6 April 2025 and will match the main lower rate of 18% from 6 April 2026. The limit of gains per individual that can qualify for BADR is GBP 1 million, and this is a cumulative lifetime limit. BADR is often relevant to employees owning shares, as it applies, subject to meeting the qualifying conditions, to shares acquired on exercise of Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) options as well as to shareholdings in a 'personal company'. A personal company is a company in which an employee or director owned at least 5% of the share capital and votes and 5% of the distributable profits and assets on a winding up:
For disposals from 6 April 2019, all the relevant conditions need to have been met for a two-year period prior to disposal (prior to this it was 12 months).
### **Business Property Relief (BPR)**
Business Property Relief (BPR), also known as Business Relief, provides relief from IHT at rates up to 100%, subject to certain conditions being met. Broadly, to qualify for BPR, the business must be engaged in mainly trading, rather than investment activities (or be the holding company of a trading group). There is a minimum ownership period, usually two years. Additionally, certain assets (known as ‘excepted assets’) restrict the amount of relief available if the asset is not used wholly or mainly for the purposes of the business concerned. A common example of this is large cash reserves. Property subject to a binding contract for sale will also not qualify for BPR. 
The relief operates to reduce the proportion of the value of relevant business property that is chargeable (or potentially chargeable) to IHT. The rate of relief is 100% or 50%, depending on the nature of the asset and applies to transfers of value in life or on death.
With effect from 6 April 2026, BPR will effectively be combined with Agricultural Property Relief (APR) which is explained further below. The first £1 million of qualifying assets will receive 100% relief (after using any available nil rate band or other exemptions), with 50% relief thereafter, resulting in an effective IHT rate of 20% on qualifying assets above the £1 million threshold. 
In addition, from the same date, BPR for qualifying shares not listed on a recognised stock exchange (such as those listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) will also be halved from 100% to 50%. These types of shares are taxed separately to the assets falling within the £1 million threshold noted above.
The rules are complex with many pitfalls, so personalised advice should always be sought.
### **Agricultural Property Relief (APR)**
APR was established as a measure to help preserve agricultural businesses by reducing the burden of IHT on the transfer of agricultural land, farms, and certain associated assets. Broadly the assets must be held for a minimum ownership period of 2 years where the asset is occupied or for 7 years where it is owned by the transferor. Certain assets such as, but not limited to, derelict buildings, livestock, wind farms do not qualify for APR. 
The relief is similar to BPR in how it applies. 
### **Investors’ Relief (IR)**
IR allows investors to enjoy a lower rate of tax of 10% on lifetime gains of up to GBP 10 million on investments into newly issued shares in non-listed trading companies, which are issued after 17 March 2016 and held for at least three years before a disposal. This relief is separate to BADR. Although IR has some similarities to BADR, the relief is restricted to external investors only and is more akin to EIS relief discussed below, although with fewer restrictions over the type of company that can qualify and how investments are structured. 
### **Business Investment Relief**
Business Investment Relief (“BIR”) is available for UK resident, non-UK domiciled individuals. It provides an opportunity for non-UK domiciled individuals, who are claiming, or have claimed, the remittance basis, to make remittances to invest in qualifying businesses without triggering a UK tax charge on the remitted income and gains. A qualifying investment is, broadly, an investment in a private trading company (including holding companies of such companies) and can be made by way of acquiring shares or securities, or by providing a loan, to the qualifying company. Care is needed before any money is remitted for this purpose, as there are strict rules to adhere to in order to be eligible for the relief, both at the point of making the investment and throughout the lifetime of the investment being in place.
Under the changes announced in the Autumn 2024 Budget, qualifying investments under BIR can continue to be made up until 5 April 2028, after which point no new investments can be made. Investments in place at 5 April 2028 can continue to be held under the existing terms of the BIR legislation.
### **Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS)**
Investments in companies that qualify under the EIS can benefit from income tax, CGT, and IHT reliefs. EIS qualifying companies must be approved by HMRC.
#### **EIS income tax relief**
Investments of up to GBP 1 million annually (GBP 2 million if at least GBP 1 million is into Knowledge Intensive Companies [KICs]) into qualifying EIS companies will get 30% income tax relief, provided that the investor or any of their associates are not 'connected' with the company. This broadly means the investor and certain family members cannot hold more than 30% of the shares or be an employee (or director, except in certain specific circumstances) of the company. A qualifying company can receive up to GBP 5 million of investment via EIS in any given 12-month period, increased to GBP 10 million if the company is also a KIC. There is also a lifetime limit of GBP 12 million (GBP 20 million for a KIC).
#### **EIS disposal relief**
If the investment qualified for income tax relief (and this has been claimed and not subsequently withdrawn), then provided the shares are held for three years there is no CGT due on the gain on the EIS shares.
#### **EIS reinvestment relief**
Gains on the disposal of any asset can be deferred if the proceeds of the sale of the asset are reinvested into qualifying EIS shares within the prescribed time period. To qualify for EIS reinvestment relief, the individual must be UK resident but can be connected with the company (unlike the position with EIS income tax relief where broadly they cannot). There is no limit on the amount of reinvestment relief (unlike EIS income tax relief). The deferred gain comes back into charge in a number of situations, including if the individual becomes non-UK resident or if the EIS shares are sold or cease to qualify as EIS shares.
#### **IHT BPR**
EIS shares that have been held for two years may qualify for complete IHT relief under the BPR provisions, subject to all the conditions being met.
### **Venture Capital Trusts (VCTs)**
VCTs are listed vehicles that, in essence, invest in a number of underlying EIS type companies (thus investors sometime choose VCTs over EIS companies as a way of diversifying their portfolio). Income tax relief is again given at 30% of the investment made, and gains made on the investment are tax free. In addition, dividends from ordinary shares in VCTs are income tax free up to the permitted maximum (currently GBP 200,000).
EIS and VCT investments are subject to a ‘disqualifying purpose’ test, which is designed to exclude companies set up for the purpose of accessing the tax reliefs.
Specifically, there is an exclusion on the use of VCT and EIS funds for the acquisition of shares in another company as funds raised must be used for the long-term growth and development of the business.
