# Montenegro
## Corporate - Tax credits and incentives
Last reviewed - 12 June 2024
The CIT Law provides four tax incentives related to businesses: one for newly established businesses in underdeveloped municipalities, one for non-governmental organisations (NGOs), a discount for settling of CIT liability by the prescribed deadline, and a foreign tax credit.
## Tax exemption for newly established businesses in underdeveloped municipalities
Newly established production companies located in underdeveloped municipalities are entitled to an eight-year tax exemption. The maximum amount of tax exemption for the period of eight years is limited to EUR 200,000.
The incentive is applicable to companies whose business units are established in underdeveloped regions. In that case, tax holiday is proportional to the amount of profit generated by such unit over the total profit for the period of eight years from establishment of the unit.
The tax incentive is not applicable to a taxpayer operating in the sectors of (i) primary production of agricultural products, (ii) transport, (iii) shipbuilding, (iv) fishery, (v) steel production, (vi) trade, and (vii) catering, except primary catering facilities.
## Tax exemption for NGOs
NGOs registered for business activity are permitted to decrease the corporate tax base by EUR 4,000, with the condition that profit is used for realisation of the main goals of an NGO.
## Foreign tax credit
Resident taxpayers are entitled to a tax credit up to the amount of corporate tax paid in another country on income realised in that country. This tax credit is equal to the tax paid in another country but may not exceed the amount of the tax that would have been paid in Montenegro.
