# Peru
## Individual - Foreign tax relief and tax treaties
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
## Foreign tax relief
Taxpayers may claim a credit for income taxes paid abroad (subject to limitations).
Domiciled individuals are entitled to use taxes withheld or paid abroad as credit for the taxes paid on foreign income taxable in Peru, determined by their average Peruvian tax rate applied on their foreign income, up to a limit of the amount of tax actually paid abroad.
## Tax treaties
Peru has entered into treaties with Brazil, Canada, Chile, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Portugal, and Switzerland regarding double taxation on income tax under the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Model.
In addition, Peru, as a member of the Andean Community of Nations (ACN), which also includes Bolivia, Colombia, and Ecuador, is subject to a double-taxation standard (based in source income and not on the OECD Model).
In May 2024, Peru and the United Kingdom completed the negotiation of an Agreement to avoid double taxation with the objective of eliminating tax barriers that discourage trade and investment. Both countries expect to sign the Treaty in the following months.


# Peru
## Individual - Significant developments
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
There have been no significant tax developments in Peru during the past year.


# Peru
## Individual - Taxes on personal income
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
Individual income tax in Peru is determined by the domicile rather than by residence (_see the section for more information on determination of domicile_). Domiciled individuals are subject to income tax on their worldwide income, whereas non-domiciled individuals are only taxed on their Peruvian-source income.
## Personal income tax rates
Income tax on labour income and foreign income generated by domiciled individuals is imposed on a scale of brackets, as shown below:
Bracket | Reference in tax units * | Tax rate (%)  
---|---|---  
First | Up to 5 | 8  
Second | 5 to 20 | 14  
Third | 20 to 35 | 17  
Fourth | 35 to 45 | 20  
Fifth | Over 45 | 30  
* For 2025, a tax unit is equivalent to 5,350 Peruvian soles (PEN). The first seven tax units are exempted from tax, and, provided that certain requirements are met, individuals may deduct three additional tax units on expenses related to the lease of immovable property, independent professional services, hotels, and restaurants, among others.
Income tax on non-domiciled employees is imposed at a flat rate of 30% on their gross Peruvian-source income. No deductions or credits apply to non-domiciled individuals.
Capital gains derived from the sale of stocks by domiciled individuals are subject to an effective 5% income tax rate. Likewise, income from leases is subject to an effective 5% income tax rate.
When there is no withholding obligation, income tax must be paid upon the filing of the annual income tax return.


# Peru
## Individual - Deductions
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
## Employment expenses
Peruvian legislation allows companies to pay directly and deduct for tax purpose expenses incurred by executives, such as expenses for moving, travel, automobile under certain circumstances, among others. Allowed deductions for the employer (the company) are the costs required to produce income and maintain its source.
## Personal deductions
### Charitable contributions
Donations to entities and dependencies of the government and non-lucrative entities whose purpose engages at least one of the following may deduct the amount of the donation, up to a limit of 10% of the net taxable income: beneficence, social assistance, education, culture, science, art, literature, sports, health, and nation inheritance, provided that these entities are qualified by the Economy and Finance Ministry.
Donations not included in the preceding paragraph are not deductible.The tax administration is required to control at least 10% of the entities registered in the registry of entities exempt from the income tax, according to the Income Tax Law Regulations, and also no less than 10% of the entities qualified as donations recipients in the previous year.
## Standard deductions
Domiciled individuals who receive income from employment or professional income are entitled to a total deduction equivalent to seven tax units from their gross income. Individuals who receive both employment and professional income can only deduct the fixed amount once.
Domiciled individuals with income other than remuneration are entitled to certain deductions in accordance with the type of income obtained. In the case of rentals, they can deduct 20% of the income. In the case of royalty payments, they can deduct 20% of gross royalties received. Independent professionals can deduct 20% of gross revenues, up to a limit of 24 tax units, plus an annual amount of seven tax units.
Employees and independent professionals will be allowed to deduct three additional tax units for expenses such as mortgage interest, rent paid to a landlord, social security paid for housekeepers, and some expenses paid to independent professional services, provided that certain requirements are met. The deduction will be applied through the 2017 annual tax return resulting in tax refund for the individual.
From 1 January 2019 and onwards, individuals will not be able to expense mortgage interest anymore. Employees and independent professionals will be allowed to deduct 30% of all expenses paid to independent professional services (except those derived from performing directorial services, trustees, and agents, among others).
Furthermore, an additional 15% of expenses derived from hotels, bars, and restaurants will be deductible for income tax purposes. Due to recent government dispositions, during fiscal years 2021 and 2022, these taxpayers will be allowed to deduct 25% for such concepts.
In addition, during fiscal years 2021 and 2022, employees and independent professionals will be able to deduct 50% of the expenses related to tour guide services, tourism of adventure, ecotourism and similar services, and artisan services, provided by independent professionals. Additionally, for such years, taxpayers will also be able to deduct 25% of the expenses provided by companies related to travel and tourism agency services, operating agencies related to tourism, tourism guide services, thermal tourism centre services and similar services, artisan activities or similar activities, and adventure tourism services, ecotourism, or similar services. 
## Losses
Capital losses derived from the transfer of shares will be offset against the annual income derived from the transfer of shares only in the fiscal year in which the income or the loss took place.


# Peru
## Individual - Income determination
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
## Employment income
Gross income from employment consists of salaries, bonuses, housing and school allowances, and, in general, any payment in cash or in kind earned by an employee in Peru, regardless of nationality, length of residence in Peru, and whether the remuneration is earned or paid outside Peru. Houses and cars owned by the company and furnished to employees do not generate taxable income for the latter. Such houses are normally furnished to employees when they work in mining, petroleum, and other non-urban production centres.
Foreigners are given the same tax treatment as Peruvians, without any special concessions; however, mobility costs and accommodation expenses during the first three months after arrival in Peru, as well as the cost of home-leave fares, airfares to one's home country for vacation during the employment agreement, are not deemed as taxable income. Severance indemnities in the amounts provided by law and indemnities for vacations not taken that are paid to terminated employees are excluded from income tax.
## Capital gains
In the case of non-domiciled individuals, capital gains derived from the transfer of shares are subject to income tax at a rate of 5% when the sale takes place ’within the country’ (Lima Stock Exchange) and 30% when the sale is performed ’outside the country’.
Capital gains derived from the sale of real estate by domiciled and non-domiciled individuals are subject to an effective income tax rate of 5%.
## Investment income
Dividends are levied with a tax rate of 5%.
Domiciled individuals’ income arising from leases, interests, and royalties are subject to an effective income tax rate of 5%.


# Peru
## Individual - Other tax credits and incentives
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
There are no other significant tax credits or incentives for individuals in Peru.


# Peru
## Individual - Residence
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
Foreign individuals are deemed to be domiciled in Peru for tax purposes if they have resided or been in Peru for more than 183 calendar days within a 12-month period. Temporary absences of up to 183 days within a 12-month period do not interrupt the continuity of the residence status.
The condition of being domiciled is determined at the beginning of the fiscal year. Changes regarding this condition during the fiscal year shall enter into force as of 1 January of the next fiscal year. This means that non-domiciled individuals who obtain residency after 30 June must wait until the next year to apply the domiciled tax treatment, and the change will be effective in the following year.


# Peru
## Individual - Other taxes
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
## Social security contributions
### Health contributions
Employers are obligated to make monthly health contribution payments equal to 9% of the total compensation paid to the employee.
Employees must choose affiliation with either the National Health System (_EsSalud_) or the Private Health System (_Entidades Promotoras de Salud_ or EPS). 25% of the amount paid to the EPS may be used as a credit against _EsSalud_ contributions.
### Pension funds contributions
Employers must apply monthly withholdings for pension funds contributions equal to (i) 13% of the compensation received by the employee in cases where the employee is affiliated with the National Pension System or (ii) approximately 12.5% in cases where the employee is affiliated with the Private Pension System (in this case, 10% corresponds to their personal pension account and almost 2.5% to insurance and commissions for managing the fund).
Should a foreign individual’s labour contract end and the individual leaves Peru, the pension funds deposited in the Private Pension System (the aforementioned 10%) can be transferred to their pension fund abroad or wired to an account of the employee in a foreign bank if no individual pension fund abroad is available.
## Consumption taxes
### Value-added tax (VAT)
The general rate of VAT is 18%. _See the section in the Corporate tax summary for more information_.
## Property taxes
The real estate property tax is levied on the value of urban and rural real estate property. _See the section in the Corporate tax summary for more information_.
## Luxury and excise taxes
The sale of specific goods, including fuel, cigarettes, beer, liquor, and vehicles, is subject to excise tax. Since September 2018, gambling and betting, such as casino games, slot machines, lotteries, bingo, raffles, draws, and equestrian events, are subject to excise tax.
Excise tax rates, and the manner in which the tax is applied, depend on the type of goods or services.
## Temporary Regime to repatriate income
An exceptional Regime was established for taxpayers domiciled in the country who decided to declare or repatriate and invest in Peru the foreign income that was not included in their tax returns. This included tax debts generated until December 31, 2022. 
The tax rate was of 10%. If the money was repatriated and kept in the country for twelve months, the tax rate could be of 7%.


