# Guatemala
## Individual - Foreign tax relief and tax treaties
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
## Foreign tax relief
Resident aliens cannot take income taxes paid to foreign countries or governmental units as a credit against their tax liability in Guatemala.
## Tax treaties
Guatemala has no tax treaties in force.


# Guatemala
## Individual - Significant developments
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
There have been no significant developments in the taxation of individuals in Guatemala during the past year.


# Guatemala
## Individual - Taxes on personal income
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
Guatemala taxes its citizens and resident or non-resident individuals on their compensation attributable to services rendered in Guatemala and on other Guatemalan-source income.
Income taxes for individuals are generated by any remuneration or income in cash, whatever its denomination might be, from personal labour provided in a dependence relationship by individuals residing in the country. Income taxed under this regime shall be imputed to the period when collected by the payee or is available.
## Personal income tax rates
The progressive tax rates are as follows:
Taxable income (GTQ*) | Tax on column 1 (GTQ) | Tax on excess (%)  
---|---|---  
Over (column 1) | Not over  
0 | 300,000 | 0 | 5  
300,000 | 15,000 | 7  
* Guatemalan quetzales


# Guatemala
## Individual - Tax administration
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
## Taxable period
The tax year for individuals runs from 1 January to 31 December.
## Tax returns
Taxes on income are governed by the income tax law (_Ley del Impuesto sobre la Renta_) and its related regulations. Administration of the law is vested with the Tax Office of Guatemala (_Superintendencia de Administración Tributaria_).
Husbands and wives cannot file joint returns.
## Payment of tax
Income tax must be withheld from salaries; rentals; royalties; fees for technical, professional, or scientific activities; or any kind of individual services.


# Guatemala
## Individual - Deductions
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
## Personal deductions
All individuals, including resident aliens, can deduct the following in determining taxable income.
  * Social security contributions (4.83% of salary). 
  * Life insurance premiums. 
  * Donations (restrictions may apply). 


## Standard deductions
A standard deduction of GTQ 48,000 is provided in addition to the personal deductions described above.


# Guatemala
## Individual - Income determination
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
## Employment income
Quantifiable fringe benefits (e.g. housing allowance, living allowance, tax reimbursement) are considered taxable income.
Non-resident aliens are taxed on salary earned for work done in Guatemala, regardless of where payment is made and regardless of whether it is remitted.
A non-resident alien's salary income from a Guatemalan source is subject to income tax withholding at 10%.
Compensation related to services performed outside Guatemala is not taxable.
### Payment of incentive bonus to employees
An addition to normal compensation is to be paid to all employees, as determined by an incentives plan commonly agreed on between the corporation and the labour force (this bonus must be equal or higher than GTQ 250 per month). This bonus is exempt for employee/employers social security contributions.
This additional compensation for the employee is exempt from social security contributions. It is treated as a deductible item for the employer.
## Capital gains
Guatemalan-source capital gains are taxed at a flat rate of 10%. Capital gains and investment income from outside the country are not taxed by Guatemala.
Capital losses can be netted only against capital gains.
## Dividend income
A non-resident alien's dividend income from a Guatemalan source is subject to income tax withholding at 5%.
## Interest income
Interest income earned by domiciled persons is subject to income tax withholding at 10%.
A non-resident alien's interest income from a Guatemalan source is subject to income tax withholding at 10%.
## Other income
A non-resident alien's income from professional fees, royalties, and technical and professional advice from a Guatemalan source is subject to income tax withholding at 15%.
A non-resident alien's other income from a Guatemalan source is subject to income tax withholding at 25%.


# Guatemala
## Individual - Other tax credits and incentives
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
## VAT credit
An income tax credit is granted for VAT paid on goods purchased and services contracted for one's exclusive personal use, up to the VAT rate (12% of net income).
The VAT credit is granted and applicable to the employee's income tax. The employee can apply all documented VAT (in Guatemala) paid on the employee's personal purchases of goods or services during the year with a maximum of 12% on the net income of the employee. No VAT in excess of the income taxes paid is refundable.
To claim this credit, the taxpayer is required to maintain on file the relevant original invoices and receipts for four years (statute of limitations).
The listing shall be submitted within the first ten working days in January of each year.


# Guatemala
## Individual - Residence
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
For tax purposes, a foreign individual will be consider as resident if:
  * the individual is present in the country for a period not exceeding, in the aggregate, 183 days in any period commencing 1 January and ending 31 December, or 
  * the individual’s fixed place of business is located in Guatemala, unless the individual demonstrates otherwise via a tax certificate from another country. 




# Guatemala
## Individual - Other taxes
Last reviewed - 16 January 2025
## Social security contributions
Employees contribute 4.83% of their monthly salary and employers contribute 12.67% of their monthly payroll to social security.
## Consumption taxes
### Value-added tax (VAT)
A 12% VAT is levied on the sale or transfer of merchandise and on non-personal services rendered or effected in Guatemala. _See the section in the Corporate summary for more information_.
## Real estate tax
Real estate taxes are assessed annually at GTQ 2 per thousand on declared property values of from GTQ 2,000 to GTQ 20,000, at GTQ 6 per thousand on values from GTQ 20,000 to GTQ 70,000, and at GTQ 9 per thousand on values in excess of GTQ 70,000 (e.g. property valued at GTQ 1 million will pay real estate taxes of GTQ 9,000).


