# Australia
## Corporate - Significant developments
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
Under the superannuation guarantee (SG) scheme, which requires employers to contribute a certain percentage of an employee's earnings base, subject to limited exceptions, to a registered superannuation fund or retirement savings account on behalf of the employee, the required SG percentage increased to 11.5% from 1 July 2024 and will remain so until 30 June 2025, at which time it will permanently increase to 12%. _See the section for more information_.
Effective for income years commencing on or after 1 July 2023, new thin capitalisation rules apply to multinational entities (other than finance entities and authorised deposit taking institutions) to limit debt deductions using earnings-based tests or a third-party debt test. Furthermore, with effect for income years commencing on or after 1 July 2024, new debt deduction creation rules can apply to deny deductions for costs of related-party debt used to fund the acquisition of certain capital gains tax (CGT) assets from an associate or to fund certain payments and distributions to associates. _See the_ _section for more information._
For contracts entered into from 1 January 2025, a non-final 15% withholding tax (previously 12.5%) applies to the gross proceeds of the sale of taxable Australian property by non-residents..
Additional scrutiny is now applied to foreign investment proposals with certain tax characteristics likely to be considered higher risk. Furthermore, a new ‘Register of foreign ownership of Australian assets’ (FIRB asset register) commenced on 1 July 2023, requiring ‘foreign persons’ (which broadly covers foreign entities and Australian entities with upstream foreign ownership) to register a broad range of assets. _See the section for more information_.
Australia has implemented the Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE) Rules, a key component of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD’s) Two-Pillar Solution to address the tax challenges of digitalisation of the economy with an effective date for some measures as early as income years commencing on or after 1 January 2024, in addition to a 15% domestic minimum tax applying to income years starting on or after 1 January 2024. _See the section for more information_.
The government’s proposal to deny deductions for payments made from 1 July 2023 by a significant global entity to related parties that relate to intangibles held in a low or no-tax jurisdiction is no longer proceeding. _See the_ _section for more information_. 
Greater tax transparency measures apply to multinationals, including an obligation for Australian public companies to report additional information about subsidiaries, including their tax residency, in relation to financial reporting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2023. Furthermore, certain large multinational groups with an Australian presence are now required to publicly disclose certain tax information on a country-by-country basis for income years commencing on or after 1 July 2024. _See the section for more information_.
From 1 July 2024, the state of Victoria has moved away from imposing stamp duty on the purchase of certain commercial or industry property to an annual commercial and industrial property tax (CIPT) for such properties with a ‘qualifying use’. _See the_ _section for more information_.
Companies registered for the goods and services tax (GST) that have received a GST assurance rating will be required to lodge a supplementary annual GST return from the 2024/25 financial year. _See the section for more information._


# Australia
## Corporate - Tax administration
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
## Taxable period
The Australian tax year runs from 1 July to 30 June. However, a corporation may apply to adopt a substitute year of income, for example, 1 January to 31 December.
## Tax returns
A corporation (including the head company of a tax consolidated group) lodges/files a tax return under a self-assessment system that allows the ATO to rely on the information stated on the return. Where a corporation is in doubt as to its tax liability regarding a specific item, it can ask the ATO to consider the matter and obtain a binding private ruling.
Generally, the tax return for a corporation is due to be lodged/filed with the ATO by the 15th day of the seventh month following the end of the relevant income year or such later date as the Commissioner of Taxation allows. Additional time may apply where the tax return is lodged/filed by a registered tax agent.
For large public and multinational companies that are GST-registered and have received a GST assurance rating, a supplementary annual GST return is now required to be lodged, with the first supplementary return to apply from the 2024/25 financial year. For June balancers, the 2024/25 supplementary annual GST return will be due by 21 February 2026.
## Payment of tax
A PAYG instalment system applies to companies other than those whose annual tax is less than AUD 8,000 that are not registered for GST. Most companies are obligated to pay instalments of tax for their current income year on a monthly or quarterly basis. All companies with turnover of AUD 20 million or more pay instalments on a monthly basis.
Instalments are calculated by applying an instalment rate to the amount of the company's actual ordinary income (ignoring deductions) for the previous quarter. The instalment rate is notified to the taxpayer by the ATO and determined by reference to the tax payable for the most recent assessment. The ATO may notify a new rate during the year on which subsequent instalments must be based. Taxpayers can determine their own instalment rate, but there may be penalty tax if the taxpayer's rate is less than 85% of the rate that should have been selected.
Final assessed tax is payable on the first day of the sixth month following the end of that income year or such later date as the Commissioner of Taxation allows by a published notice.
## Tax audit process
The Australian tax system for companies is based on self-assessment; however, the ATO undertakes ongoing compliance activity to ensure corporations are meeting their tax obligations. The ATO adopts the justified trust concept from the OECD, where it will seek objective evidence that would lead a reasonable person to conclude a particular taxpayer paid the right amount of tax and will tailor its assurance approach based on the unique business profile of a taxpayer. This generally means that the ATO will take a risk-based approach to compliance and audit activities, with efforts generally focused on taxpayers with a higher likelihood of non-compliance and/or higher consequences (generally in dollar terms) of non-compliance. Compliance activities take various forms, including general risk reviews, questionnaires, reviews of specific issues, and audits.
## Statute of limitations
Generally, the Commissioner of Taxation may amend an assessment within four years after the day of which an assessment is given to a company. Under the self-assessment system, an assessment is deemed to have been given to the company on the day on which it lodges its tax return. The four-year time limit does not apply where the Commissioner is of the opinion there has been fraud or evasion, or to give effect to a decision on a review or appeal, or as a result of an objection made by the company, or pending a review or appeal. For certain small business entities and, for assessments for income years commencing on or after 1 July 2021, medium business entities (i.e. those with aggregated turnover of between AUD 10 million and AUD 50 million), a two-year amendment period generally applies. A seven-year period of review applies to an assessment to give effect to a transfer pricing adjustment raised for an income year commencing on or after 29 June 2013.
## Topics of focus for tax authorities
The ATO has a 'Top 100' and 'Top 1000' program that aims to obtain additional evidence to achieve greater assurance that the largest public and multinational companies are reporting the right amount of income tax and GST in Australia. There is also a similar program covering the largest private groups in Australia ('Top 500'). The programs support and expand the ATO’s compliance approaches. Under the programs, ATO teams engage with each taxpayer using tailored compliance approaches using justified trust methodology to assure they are reporting the right amount of income tax or identify areas of tax risk for further action.
The ATO periodically releases its compliance focus areas that are attracting its attention. The following are current areas of focus by the ATO for large and multinational businesses:
  * A strong focus on shifting of profits to lower tax jurisdictions and the cessation of Australian operations, including a focus on cross-border transactions (in particular, related-party financing).
  * Structuring and business events, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestment of major assets and demergers, share buy backs, capital raisings and returns of capital, private equity entries and exits, and initial public offerings.
  * Capital gains tax, losses (capital and revenue), tax consolidation, infrastructure investments, and financial arrangements.
  * GST and property transactions, cross-border issues, and financial supply transactions.
  * Sharing data and intelligence on risks and opportunities, sharing capabilities and strategies, and joint compliance action with other jurisdictions.
  * R&D tax incentive.




# Australia
## Corporate - Corporate residence
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
A company is a resident of Australia for income tax purposes if it is incorporated in Australia or, if not incorporated in Australia, it carries on business in Australia and either (i) its central management and control are in Australia (CM&C test) or (ii) its voting power is controlled by shareholders who are residents of Australia.
Guidance from the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) has indicated that if a foreign incorporated company carries on a business and has its central management and control in Australia, it will carry on business in Australia with the meaning of the CM&C test of residency, even though no part of the actual trading or investment operations of the business take places in Australia. The previous government proposed amendments to existing legislation to clarify the position so that a foreign incorporated company only will be treated as an Australian tax resident if it has a ‘significant economic connection to Australia’. However, there has been a change of government since this was first announced, and it remains unclear whether this proposal will proceed. If the measure is enacted as originally announced, this test will be satisfied where both the company’s core commercial activities are undertaken in Australia and its central management and control is in Australia. The measure, if enacted as proposed, would have effect from the first income year after the enabling legislation is enacted; however, taxpayers would have the option of applying the new law from 15 March 2017.
## Permanent establishment (PE)
The concept of a PE is established in both domestic law and various DTAs that have been concluded with Australia. Where a company is resident in a country with which Australia has a DTA, it is important to have regard to the definition of PE contained therein as this will generally apply in priority to the domestic law.
Broadly, under Australia's domestic law, a PE is a place at or through which a person carries on any business, and includes:
  * A place where the person is carrying on business through an agent (except where the agent does not have, or does not habitually exercise, a general authority to negotiate and conclude contracts on behalf of the person).
  * A place where the person has, is using, or is installing substantial equipment or substantial machinery.
  * A place where the person is engaged in a construction contract.
  * Where the person is engaged in selling goods manufactured, assembled, processed, packed, or distributed by another person for, or at or to the order of, the first-mentioned person and either of those persons participates in the management, control, or capital of the other person or another person participates in the management, control, or capital of both of those persons, the place where the goods are manufactured, assembled, processed, packed, or distributed.


Most DTAs contain a definition of PE that is similar, though not identical, to the definition under domestic law.


# Australia
## Corporate - Deductions
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
## Depreciation and depletion
A capital allowances regime allows a deduction for the decline in value of depreciating assets held by a taxpayer. The holder of the asset is entitled to the deduction and may be the economic, rather than the legal, owner. A 'depreciating asset' is an asset that has a limited effective life and can reasonably be expected to decline in value over the time it is used, but does not include land, trading stock, or, subject to certain exceptions, intangible assets. Deductions are available for certain other capital expenditure.
Intangible assets that are depreciating assets (if they are not trading stock) are:
  * Certain mining, quarrying, or prospecting rights and information.
  * Items of intellectual property (IP).
  * In-house software.
  * Indefeasible rights to use a telecommunications cable system.
  * Spectrum licences under radio communications legislation.
  * Datacasting transmitter licences.
  * Telecommunications site access rights.


Taxpayers that do not qualify for any of the capital allowance accelerated depreciation concessions for businesses (_see below_) must depreciate the asset over its useful life (known as 'effective life') using either the straight-line (known as the 'prime cost' method) or diminishing-value method (straight-line rate multiplied by 200%).
Taxpayers may self-determine the effective life of certain items of depreciating assets or may choose the effective life for the asset as contained in a published determination of the Commissioner of Taxation.
Business taxpayers are able to immediately deduct items that cost less than AUD 100 and choose to write off all items costing less than AUD 1,000 through a low-value pool at a diminishing-value rate of 37.5% _per annum_ to the extent the asset is used for income-producing purposes.
Small businesses (i.e. those with aggregated annual turnover of less than AUD 10 million) are able to immediately deduct the full cost of eligible assets costing less than AUD 20,000 that are first used or installed ready for use between 1 July 2023 and 30 June 2024 (it is also proposed to extend this until 30 June 2025).
Furthermore, small and medium businesses (i.e. those with aggregated annual turnover of less than AUD 50 million) can deduct an additional 20% of the cost of:
  * Eligible depreciating assets that support electrification and more efficient use of energy, with the maximum bonus deduction being AUD 20,000. Eligible assets or upgrades needed to be first used or installed ready for use between 1 July 2023 and 30 June 2024. Certain exclusions apply, such as electric vehicles, renewable electricity generation assets, capital works, and assets that are not connected to the electricity grid and use fossil fuels.
  * Eligible external training courses provided to employees in Australia and incurred between 7:30 pm (AEDT) on 29 March 2022 until 30 June 2024 (Skills and Training Boost).


'Project pool' rules allow expenditures that do not form part of the cost of a depreciating asset to be deductible over the life of a project that is carried on for a taxable purpose. Amongst other things, items that fall within the rules include the following:
  * Amounts paid to create or upgrade community infrastructure for a community associated with the project.
  * Site preparation costs for depreciating assets (except horticultural plants in certain circumstances).
  * Amounts incurred for feasibility studies for a project.
  * Environmental assessment costs applicable to the project.
  * Amounts incurred to obtain information associated with the project.
  * Amounts incurred in seeking to obtain a right to IP.
  * Costs of ornamental trees or shrubs.


The so-called 'blackhole' expenditure provisions allow a five-year straight-line write-off for capital expenditure in relation to a past, present, or prospective business, to the extent that the business is, was, or is proposed to be carried on for a taxable purpose. The expenditure is deductible to the extent that it is not elsewhere taken into account (e.g. by inclusion in the cost base of an asset for CGT purposes) and that it is not denied deductibility for the purposes of the income tax law (e.g. by the rules against deducting entertainment expenditure).
Special rules apply for primary producer assets, such as horticultural plants, water and land care assets, and the treatment of expenditure on research and development (R&D) (_see the section for more information_) and expenditure on certain Australian films.
A luxury car cost limit applies for depreciating the cost of certain passenger motor vehicles (AUD 69,674 cost limit for the 2024/25 financial year [AUD 68,108 for 2023/24]).
Expenditure on the development of in-house software may be allocated to a 'software development pool' and written off over five years (30% in years two, three, and four, and 10% in year five). Amounts spent on acquiring computer software or the right to use it (except where the acquisition is for developing in-house software) generally are treated as incurred on acquiring a depreciating asset, deductible over five years commencing in the year it is first used or installed ready for use.
A loss arising on the sale of a depreciating asset (depreciated value of the asset less sale consideration) is generally an allowable deduction. A gain on the sale of a depreciating asset, to the extent of depreciation recaptured, generally is taxed as ordinary income. Gains exceeding the amount of depreciation recaptured are also taxed as ordinary assessable income (i.e. not as a capital gain).
Subject to exceptions referred to below, capital expenditure incurred after 15 September 1987 in the construction or improvement of buildings used for producing assessable income is amortised over 40 years at an annual 2.5% rate.
Capital expenditure on the construction of buildings used for short-term traveller accommodation (e.g. hotels, motels) and industrial buildings (typically factories) is amortised over 25 years at an annual 4% rate where construction commenced after 26 February 1992. For eligible new build-to-rent developments, the annual deduction rate is increased to 4% where construction commenced after 7:30 pm (AEST) on 9 May 2023.
There is no recapture of the amortised amount upon disposal of the building, except where the expenditure is incurred after 13 May 1997, in which case recapture will apply, subject to certain transitional rules.
The cost of income-producing structural improvements, the construction of which started after 26 February 1992, is eligible for write-off for tax purposes on the same basis as that of income-producing buildings, that is, at a rate of 2.5% _per annum_.
The cost of consumables may be either written off immediately or as used.
The following expenditure attracts an immediate 100% deduction: environmental protection activities, dealing with pollution and waste; landcare operations; exploring or prospecting for minerals, including the cost of mining rights and information acquired from an Australian government agency or government entity; mine site rehabilitation; and capital expenditure incurred by primary producers on fencing, water facilities, and fodder storage assets used to store grain and other animal feed.
Tax depreciation is not required to conform to book depreciation.
Percentage depletion based on gross income or other non-cost criteria is not available.
## Goodwill
Goodwill and trademarks are not depreciating assets, and tax amortisation is not available.
## Start-up expenses
Certain start-up expenses, such as costs of company incorporation or costs to raise equity, may qualify for a five-year straight-line write-off to the extent that it is capital expenditure in relation to a current or prospective business that is, or is proposed to be, carried on for a taxable purpose. An immediate deduction is available to a small-medium business entity (i.e. a business with aggregated turnover of less than AUD 50 million) for a range of professional expenses (e.g. legal and accounting advice) and taxes or charges to an Australian government agency associated with starting a new business.
## Interest expenses
Special rules classify financial arrangements as either debt or equity interests. These rules focus on economic substance rather than legal form and take into account related schemes, and extend beyond shares. In this situation, interest expense on non-share equity would be treated as a dividend, which is potentially frankable, and would be non-deductible for the paying company/group.
The law allows companies to claim a deduction for interest expenses incurred in relation to offshore investments that generate non-assessable, non-exempt dividend income.
Thin capitalisation measures apply to the total debt of the Australian operations of multinational groups (including branches of those groups). _See Thin capitalisation in the section for more information_.
Australian taxpayers claiming interest deductions on a financing arrangement from a related foreign interposed zero or low-rate entity (broadly, a jurisdiction with tax rates of 10% or less or jurisdictions that may offer tax concessions) need to consider the potential application of complex integrity rules, which were introduced as part of Australia’s hybrid mismatch rules. Specialist advice should always be sought.
## Bad or forgiven debts
A deduction may be available for bad debts written off as bad before the end of an income year. Generally, a deduction will only be available where the amount of the debt was previously included in assessable income, or the debt is in respect of money lent in the ordinary course of a money lending business. The ability to claim a deduction for a bad debt is also subject to other integrity measures.
The amount of a commercial debt forgiven (other than an intra-group debt within a tax consolidated group) that is not otherwise assessable or does not otherwise reduce an allowable deduction is applied to reduce the debtor's carryforward tax deductions for revenue tax losses, carryforward capital losses, undeducted capital expenditure, and other capital cost bases in that order. Any amount not so applied, generally, is not assessable to the debtor. Forgiveness includes the release, waiver, or extinguishment of a debt (other than by full payment in cash) and the lapsing of the creditor's recovery right by reason of a statute of limitations.
## Charitable contributions
Charitable contributions are generally deductible where they are made to entities that are specifically named in the tax law or endorsed by the Commissioner of Taxation as 'deductible gift recipients'. However, deductions for such gifts cannot generate tax losses. That is, generally the deduction is limited to the amount of assessable income remaining after deducting from the assessable income for the year all other deductions.
## Entertainment
Subject to limited exceptions, deductions are denied for expenditure on 'entertainment', which broadly is defined as entertainment by way of food, drink, or recreation, and accommodation or travel to do with providing such entertainment. As a general rule, an income tax deduction is available for the cost of providing entertainment that is a fringe benefit (i.e. provided to employees).
## Fines and penalties
Fines and penalties imposed under any Australian and foreign law are generally not deductible. This includes fines and penalties imposed in relation to both civil and criminal matters.
The General Interest Charge (GIC) and Shortfall Interest Charge (SIC), which are imposed for failure to pay an outstanding tax debt within the required timeframe or where a tax shortfall arises under an amended assessment, are deductible for Australian tax purposes (it is proposed that this deduction will be denied where incurred in income years starting on or after 1 July 2025).
## Taxes
In general, GST input tax credits, GST, and adjustments under the GST law are disregarded for income tax purposes. Other taxes, including property, payroll, PRRT, and FBT, as well as other business taxes (excluding income tax and the Diverted Profits Tax [DPT]) are deductible to the extent they are incurred in producing assessable income or necessarily incurred in carrying on a business for this purpose, and are not of a capital or private nature.
## Other significant items
Where expenditure for services is incurred in advance, deductibility of that expenditure generally will be prorated over the period during which the services will be provided, up to a maximum of ten years.
General value shifting rules apply to shifts of value, direct or indirect, in respect of loan and equity interests in companies or trusts. Circumstances in which these rules may apply include where there is a direct value shift under a scheme involving equity or loan interests, or where value is shifted out of an asset by the creation of rights in respect of the asset, or where there is a transfer of assets or the provision of services for a consideration other than at market value. The value shifting rules may apply to the head company of a tax consolidated group or multiple entry consolidated (MEC) group for value shifts also involving entities outside the group, but not to value shifting between group members, which the tax consolidation rules address (_see the section for more information_).
## Net operating losses
Losses may be carried forward indefinitely, subject to compliance with tests of continuity of more than 50% of ultimate voting, dividends, and capital rights or compliance with a same business test or similar business test (the latter only applicable to losses incurred in income years from 1 July 2015).
For consolidated group companies, the ability to utilise these losses may be subject to additional rules (_see the section for more information_).
The temporary loss carryback measure that applied to companies with an aggregated turnover of less than AUD 5 billion in relation to tax losses incurred in the 2019/20, 2020/21, 2021/22, and/or 2022/23 income years no longer applies. 
## Payments to foreign affiliates
A corporation can deduct royalties, management service fees, and interest charges paid to non-residents, provided the amounts are referable to activities aimed at producing assessable income, and also having regard to Australia's transfer pricing rules and thin capitalisation rules (_see Thin capitalisation in the section for more information_). In the case of royalties and interest payable to non-residents, there is also a requirement that any applicable withholding taxes (WHTs) are remitted to the Commissioner of Taxation before the deduction can be taken.
Certain payments made by a significant global entity (SGE), broadly an entity that is part of a group with global revenue of AUD 1 billion or more, under an arrangement involving a foreign entity that is an associate may be subject to DPT. The DPT aims to ensure that the tax paid by SGEs properly reflects the economic substance of their activities in Australia and aims to prevent the diversion of profits offshore through arrangements involving related parties. Specifically, the DPT applies at a rate of 40% on the Australian tax benefit obtained in connection with a scheme involving a foreign entity that is an associate of the Australian taxpayer where the principal purpose, or one of the principal purposes, of the scheme is to obtain an Australian tax benefit or to obtain both an Australian tax benefit and reduce foreign tax liabilities, subject to certain exceptions (e.g. a ‘sufficient economic substance test’).
Furthermore, Australian taxpayers making interest or derivative payments on a financing arrangement from a related foreign interposed zero or low-tax rate entity need to consider the potential application of integrity rules introduced as part of Australia’s hybrid mismatch rules.
The government is no longer proceeding with its proposed integrity rule to deny deductions to an SGE for a payment made from 1 July 2023 directly or indirectly to an associate, in relation to exploiting intangible assets that results in the recipient (or another associate) deriving income in a low corporate tax jurisdiction. Instead, the government has announced that new penalties will be introduced to apply from 1 July 2026 to such entities that are found to have mischaracterised or undervalued royalty payments, to which royalty WHT would otherwise apply (specific details are not yet available).


# Australia
## Corporate - Group taxation
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
A tax consolidation regime applies for income tax and CGT purposes for Australian tax resident companies, partnerships, and trusts ultimately 100% owned by a single head company (or certain entities taxed like a company) resident in Australia. Australian resident companies that are 100% owned (either directly or indirectly) by the same foreign company and have no common Australian head company between them and the non-resident parent are also allowed to consolidate as a multiple entry consolidated (MEC) group. The group that is consolidated for income tax purposes may differ from the group that is consolidated for accounts or for GST purposes.
Groups that choose to consolidate must include all 100%-owned resident entities under an all-in rule, and the choice to consolidate is irrevocable. However, eligible tier-1 companies (being Australian resident companies that have a non-resident shareholder) that are members of a potential MEC group are not all required to join a single MEC group when it forms, but may form two or more separate MEC or consolidated groups, if they so choose, of which the same foreign top company is the 100% owner. If an eligible tier-1 company joins a particular MEC group, all 100% resident subsidiaries of the company must also join the group. While the rules for forming and joining MEC groups allow more flexibility than with consolidated groups, the ongoing rules for MEC groups are more complex, particularly for tax losses and on the disposal of interests in eligible tier-1 companies, which are subject to cost pooling rules, although for practical purposes these rules are relevant only if the non-resident’s interest is (or will become) an indirect Australian real property interest (_see Capital gains in the section for more information_).
A single entity rule applies to members of a consolidated or MEC group so that, for income tax purposes, the subsidiary members are taken to be part of the head company, and, while they remain members of the group, any intra-group transactions are not recognised. In general, no group relief is available where related companies are not members of the same consolidated or MEC group. Rollover relief from CGT is available on the transfer of unrealised gains on assets, which are taxable Australian property, between companies sharing 100% common ownership where the transfer is between non-resident companies, or between a non-resident company and a member of a consolidated group or MEC group, or between a non-resident company and a resident company that is not able to be a member of a consolidated group.
Consolidated groups file a single tax return and calculate their taxable income or loss ignoring all intra-group transactions.
When a consolidated group acquires 100% of an Australian resident entity, so that it becomes a subsidiary member, generally the cost base of certain assets (in general, those that are non-monetary) of the joining member are reset for all tax purposes, based on the purchase price of the shares plus the entity's liabilities, subject to certain adjustments. In this way, an acquisition of 100% of an Australian resident entity by a consolidated group is broadly the tax equivalent of acquiring its assets. Subject to certain tests being passed, tax losses of the joining member may be transferred to the head company and may be utilised subject to a loss factor, which is broadly the market value of the joining member divided by the market value of the group (including the joining member). The value of the loss factor (referred to as 'the available fraction') that applies for transferred losses may be reduced by capital injections (or the equivalent) into the member before it joined, or into the group after the loss is transferred.
Franking credits and tax losses remain with the head company of the group when a member exits, and the cost base of shares in the exiting member is recreated based on the tax value of its assets at the time of exit, less liabilities subject to certain adjustments.
Generally, members of the group are jointly and severally liable for group income tax debts on the default of the head company, unless the group liability is covered by a tax sharing agreement (TSA) that satisfies certain legislative requirements. A member who enters into a TSA generally can achieve a clean exit from the group where a payment is made to the head company in accordance with the TSA.
## Transfer pricing
Australia has a comprehensive transfer pricing regime aimed at protecting the tax base by ensuring that dealings between related, international parties are conducted at arm's length. The arm's-length principle, which underpins the transfer pricing regime, uses the behaviour of independent parties as a benchmark for determining the allocation of income and expenses between international related parties. Australia’s transfer pricing regime is in line with international best practice as set out by the OECD.
Transfer pricing adjustments operate on a self-assessment basis and apply in respect of certain cross-border dealings between entities and to the allocation of actual income and expenses of an entity between the entity and its PE, using the internationally accepted arm's-length principle, which is to be determined consistently with the relevant OECD Guidance material (and applied to both treaty and non-treaty cases). In addition, companies are required to have transfer pricing documentation in place to support their self-assessed positions before the lodgement of the tax return.
Australia implemented the OECD’s transfer pricing documentation standards for those companies that are part of a group with global revenue of AUD 1 billion or more. Under these documentation standards, the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) receives the following information on large companies operating in Australia:
  * A country-by-country (CbC) report that shows information on the global activities of a multinational, including the location of its income and taxes paid.
  * A master file containing an overview of the multinational’s global business, its organisational structure, and its transfer pricing policies.
  * A local file that provides detail about the local taxpayer’s inter-company transactions.


The ATO has had a specific focus on transfer pricing of related-party cross-border financing, marketing, sales, and distribution arrangements in recent times and has adopted a compliance approach that will vary depending on the risk rating of a taxpayer’s specific related-party arrangement.
## Thin capitalisation
Thin capitalisation measures apply to the total debt of the Australian operations of multinational groups (including branches of those groups). The measures cover investment into Australia of foreign multinationals and Australian-based multinationals. In relation to foreign investment into Australia, the rules apply where a foreign entity carries on business through an Australian PE or to an Australian entity in which five or fewer non-residents have at least a 50% control interest, or a single non-resident has at least a 40% control interest, or the Australian entity is controlled by no more than five foreign entities.
For income years that commence before 1 July 2023, interest deductions are denied to the extent that borrowing exceeds the applicable safe-harbour debt-to-equity ratio of 1.5:1. Where borrowing exceeds the safe-harbour ratio, multinationals may have chosen to apply an arm's-length test (that the borrowing could have been borne by an independent entity) or a further alternative test that was available for certain inward or outward investing entities based on 100% of their worldwide gearing.
With effect for income years commencing on or after 1 July 2023, the thin capitalisation rules are amended such that, for non-financial entities, the limit on debt deductions is determined by reference to 30% of tax EBITDA (referred to as a fixed ratio test). Deductions denied under the fixed ratio test can be carried forward and claimed in a subsequent income year (up to 15 years) in certain circumstances. An additional test that can be chosen is a group ratio test, which will allow an entity in a group to claim debt-related deductions having regard to the percentage of worldwide group’s net interest expense as a share of group earnings applied to the entity’s tax EBITDA (this test replaced the worldwide gearing ratio). A third-party debt test replaced the arm's-length debt test, and, if chosen, will limit debt deductions to the amounts that are only attributable to the entity's external third-party debt that meet the relevant conditions.
Separate rules apply to financial institutions. 
Furthermore, new debt deduction creation rules apply to income years commencing on or after 1 July 2024 and broadly apply to all entities subject to the thin capitalisation rules, other than an authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI). These rules are intended to disallow debt deductions to the extent that they are incurred in relation to certain debt creation schemes that typically lack genuine commercial justification. The rules can affect debt deductions arising from both existing and new related-party debt arrangements that were used to fund:
  * the acquisition of a CGT asset or a legal or equitable obligation from an associate, subject to certain exemptions, or
  * certain payments and distributions to associates. 


## Controlled foreign companies (CFCs)
Under Australia’s CFC regime, non-active income of foreign companies controlled by Australian residents (determined by reference to voting rights and dividend and capital entitlements) may be attributed to those residents under rules that distinguish between companies resident in 'listed countries' (e.g. Canada, France, Germany, Japan, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States) and in other 'unlisted' countries. In general, if the CFC is resident in an unlisted country and it fails the active income test (typically because it earns 5% or more of its income from passive or tainted sources), the CFC's tainted income (very broadly, passive income and gains, and sales and services income that has a connection with Australia) is attributable. If a CFC is resident in a listed country, a narrower range of tainted income is attributed even if the CFC fails the active income test.
When income previously taxed on attribution is repatriated, it is not assessable for tax.
## Integrity measures for large multinationals
The following integrity measures seek to address multinational tax avoidance by entities that, in broad terms, are 'significant global entities' (SGEs) and/or ‘country-by-country reporting entities’ (CbCREs); broadly entities that are part of an actual consolidated accounting group or notional consolidated accounting group (determined by assuming that each member of the group were a listed company and disregarding certain exceptions for preparing consolidated accounts) with global revenue of AUD 1 billion or more:
  * Transfer pricing documentation standards applicable to a CbCRE. See _Transfer pricing_ comments above.
  * The doubling of the maximum administrative penalties that can be applied to entities that enter into tax avoidance and profit shifting schemes.
  * A targeted anti-avoidance rule aimed at multinationals that enter into arrangements that artificially avoid having a taxable presence in Australia. Specifically, this measure will ensure that profits from Australian sales are taxed in Australia where the activities of an Australian associated entity support the making of those sales, and the profit from the Australian sales is booked overseas and is not attributable to a PE of the foreign entity in Australia. A principal purpose of entering into the arrangement must be to create a tax benefit.
  * A requirement for a CbCRE to lodge general purpose financial statements (GPFS) with the ATO where such accounts are not already lodged with the Australian Securities and Investment Commission.
  * A Diverted Profits Tax (DPT) that is imposed at a penalty rate of 40% in circumstances where the amount of Australian tax paid is reduced by diverting profits offshore through contrived related-party arrangements. The DPT is extremely broad (for example, both financing and non-financing arrangements are in scope).
  * Significantly increased penalties (now as great as AUD 825,000 from 7 November 2024) that can be applied for failing to lodge a tax return (or other tax-related document) on time.
  * Doubling of penalties that can be applied for making a false or misleading statement.
  * Requiring a CBC reporting parent with an Australian presence to publish (facilitated by the ATO) certain tax information on a CbC basis for specified jurisdictions, and on either a CbC basis or an aggregated basis for the rest of the world, applicable to reporting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2024.


The Australian government has also proposed new penalties to apply from 1 July 2026 to entities that are found to have mischaracterised or undervalued royalty payments, to which royalty WHT would otherwise apply.
## Hybrid mismatch rules
Australia has comprehensive hybrid mismatch rules. Hybrid mismatches are differences in the tax treatment of an entity or instrument under the laws of two or more tax jurisdictions. If a mismatch arises, the law operates to neutralise the mismatch in Australia by:
  * Preventing entities that are liable to income tax in Australia from being able to avoid income taxation, or obtain a double non-taxation benefit, by exploiting differences between the tax treatment of entities and instruments across different countries by disallowing a deduction or including an amount in assessable income.
  * Limiting the scope of the exemption for foreign branch income and preventing a deduction from arising for payments made by an Australian branch of a foreign bank to its head office in some circumstances.
  * Denying imputation benefits on franked distributions made by an Australian corporate tax entity if all or part of the distribution gives rise to a foreign income tax deduction; and preventing certain foreign equity distributions received, directly or indirectly, by an Australian corporate tax entity from being exempt if all or part of the distribution gives rise to a foreign income tax deduction.


In addition, there is an integrity rule that has the potential to impose additional Australian tax on interest and derivative payments to foreign interposed zero or low-tax rate entities, irrespective of whether the arrangement involves a hybrid element.


# Australia
## Corporate - Branch income
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
Branch profits are subject to ordinary corporate rates of taxation, and there is no withholding on repatriated profits.


# Australia
## Corporate - Tax credits and incentives
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
## Foreign income tax offsets (FITOs)
FITOs are available to avoid double taxation in respect of foreign tax paid on income or gains that are assessable in Australia. Generally, a corporation will be entitled to claim a FITO where it has paid, or is deemed to have paid, an amount of foreign income tax and the income or gain on which the foreign income tax was paid is included in assessable income for Australian tax purposes.
The amount of the FITO available is limited to the greater of AUD 1,000 and the amount of the 'FITO limit'. The FITO limit is broadly calculated as the difference between the corporation's actual tax liability and its tax liability if certain foreign taxed and foreign-sourced income and related deductions were disregarded. Excess FITOs are not able to be carried forward and claimed in later income years.
## Inward investment incentives
Depending on the nature and size of the investment project, state governments may give rebates from payroll, stamp, and land taxes on an _ad hoc_ basis and for limited periods.
## Capital investment incentives
Incentives for capital investment are as follows:
  * Accelerated deductions are available for capital expenditures on the exploration for and extraction of petroleum and minerals (other than mining rights and information acquired from a non-government third party, which are claimed over the shorter of 15 years and the life of the asset), the rehabilitation of former mineral extraction sites, certain environmental protection activities, the establishment of certain 'carbon sink' forests, certain expenditure of primary producers, and for certain low cost depreciating assets held by small business entities.
  * There are a number of tax concessions aimed at encouraging investments in the venture capital sector. Non-resident pension funds that are tax-exempt in their home jurisdiction and satisfy certain Australian registration requirements are exempt from income tax on the disposal of investments in certain Australian venture capital equity held at risk for at least 12 months. A similar exemption is extended to other tax-exempt non-resident investors, including managed funds and venture capital fund-of-funds vehicles and taxable non-residents holding less than 10% of a venture capital limited partnership. These investors are able to invest in eligible venture capital investments through an Australian resident venture capital limited partnership or through a non-resident venture capital limited partnership. Eligible venture capital investments are limited to specified interests in companies and trusts. Detailed rules in the legislation prescribe the nature of such investments and the characteristics, which such companies and trusts, and their investments, must possess.
  * Investors in an Australian Early Stage Innovation Company (ESIC), broadly a company that is at an early stage of establishment to develop new or significantly improved innovations with the purpose of commercialisation to generate an economic return, are provided with a non-refundable carry forward tax offset equal to 20% of the amount paid for the investment, subject to a cap, and a capital gains tax exemption for shares that have been held for between one and ten years.
  * There is a venture capital tax concession applicable to an 'early stage venture capital limited partnership' (ESVCLP). The thresholds for qualification include requirements that, amongst other things, the committed capital of the ESVCLP must be at least AUD 10 million but not exceed AUD 200 million, the investments made must fall within prescribed parameters as to size and proportion of total capital, and the ESVCLP must have an investment plan approved by Innovation Australia. Where the thresholds for their application are met, the ESVCLP provisions provide flow-through tax treatment to domestic and foreign partners, with the income and capital received by the partners exempt from taxation. As the income is tax exempt, the investor is not able to deduct investment losses.
  * Refundable tax offsets are available to companies for certain expenditure incurred in Australia in producing specified classes of film or undertaking specified post, digital, or special effects production activities in respect of specified classes of films and television series. The concessions are only available to a company that is either an Australian resident or a non-resident carrying on business through an Australian PE and which has been issued with an Australian Business Number (ABN). The availability of the offsets is subject to a number of conditions, including meeting registration and minimum spend requirements. The rate of the offset varies from 16.5% to 40%, depending upon the nature of the relevant film and activities undertaken.
  * The Junior Minerals Exploration Incentive (JMEI) enables eligible minerals exploration companies to generate tax credits for new shareholders by giving up a portion of their tax losses from greenfield mineral exploration expenditure, which can then be distributed to shareholders. The scheme has applied since 1 July 2017 and extends until 30 June 2025.
  * A Digital Games Tax Offset, a refundable income tax offset, is available to companies that develop digital games in Australia for which the Arts Minister has issued a qualifying certificate in relation to the activity. The offset is 30% of a company’s total qualifying Australian development expenditure incurred on or after 1 July 2022 in developing new or existing digital games, including porting a digital game in Australia, where the company has a certificate from the Arts Minister.


## R&D tax offset
Companies with an annual turnover of less than AUD 20 million can access a refundable R&D tax offset at a rate 18.5% above the claimant company's tax rate. Companies with a turnover of at least AUD 20 million have access to a non-refundable tax offset at a rate equal to the claimant company's tax rate plus 8.5% for R&D expenditure between 0% and 2% R&D intensity and 16.5% for R&D expenditure above 2% R&D intensity; intensity is measured as the company's R&D expenditure as a proportion of total expenses for the year. The rate of the R&D tax offset is reduced to the company tax rate for that portion of an entity's notional R&D deductions that exceed AUD 150 million in the income year.
Generally, only genuine R&D activities undertaken in Australia qualify for the R&D tax incentive. However, R&D activities conducted overseas also qualify in limited circumstances where the activities cannot be undertaken in Australia. Special grant programmes also may be available to assist corporations in the conduct of certain R&D in Australia. These grants are awarded on a discretionary basis.
## Other incentives
Small and medium businesses (i.e. those with aggregated annual turnover of less than AUD 50 million) are eligible to access 'boost' deductions of an additional 20% of expenditure incurred under the following temporary incentives:
  * Skills and Training Boost: Eligible expenditure incurred on external training delivered to employees by eligible training providers registered in Australia and incurred from 7:30 pm (AEDT) on 29 March 2022 until 30 June 2024.
  * Energy Incentive: Eligible expenditure that support electrification and more efficient energy use on certain depreciating assets or upgrades that are first used or installed ready for use between 1 July 2023 and 30 June 2024). The boost deduction is capped with a maximum bonus deduction of AUD 20,000.


Legislation is also before Parliament to introduce a critical minerals production tax incentive (CMPTI) and a hydrogen production tax incentive (HPTI). Both incentives, which will operate in the form of a refundable tax offset, will apply to eligible taxpayers for a maximum of ten years between 1 July 2027 and 30 June 2040.
Cash grants for export-market development expenditure are available to eligible businesses seeking to export Australian-source goods and services.


# Australia
## Corporate - Withholding taxes
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
WHT rates are shown in the following table.
Recipient | WHT (%)  
---|---  
Dividends (1) | Interest (2) | Royalties (3)  
Resident corporations or individuals (36) | 0 | 0 | 0  
Non-resident corporations or individuals:  
Non-treaty | 30 | 10 | 30  
Treaty:  
Argentina | 10/15 (4) | 12 | 10/15 (4)  
Austria (5) | 15 | 10 | 10  
Belgium | 15 | 10 | 10  
Canada | 5/15 (6) | 10 | 10  
Chile  | 5/15 (7) | 5/10/15 (7) | 5/10 (7)  
China, People’s Republic of (8) | 15 | 10 | 10  
Czech Republic | 5/15 (9) | 10 | 10  
Denmark | 15 | 10 | 10  
Fiji | 20 | 10 | 15  
Finland | 0/5/15 (11) | 0/10 (11) | 5 (11)  
France | 0/5/15 (12) | 0/10 (12) | 5 (12)  
Germany  | 5/15 (34) | 0/10 (34) | 5  
Hungary | 15 | 10 | 10  
Iceland (10) | 0/5/15 (10) | 0/10 (10) | 10  
India | 15 | 15 | 10/15 (13)  
Indonesia | 15 | 10 | 10/15 (14)  
Ireland, Republic of | 15 | 10 | 10  
Israel (35) | 0/5/15 (35) | 0/5/10 (35) | 5  
Italy | 15 | 10 | 10  
Japan | 0/5/10/15 (15) | 0/10 (15) | 5 (15)  
Kiribati | 20 | 10 | 15  
Korea, Republic of | 15 | 15 | 15  
Malaysia | 0/15 (16) | 15 | 15  
Malta | 15 (17) | 15 | 10  
Mexico | 0/15 (18) | 10/15 (18) | 10  
Netherlands | 15 | 10 | 10  
New Zealand | 0/5/15 (19) | 0/10 (19) | 5  
Norway | 0/5/15 (20) | 0/10 (20) | 5  
Papua New Guinea | 15/20 (21) | 10 | 10  
Philippines | 15/25 (22) | 10/15 (22) | 15/25 (22)  
Poland | 15 | 10 | 10  
Portugal (30) | 5/10 | 0/5/10 | 10  
Romania | 5/15 (23) | 10 | 10  
Russian Federation | 5/15 (24) | 10 | 10  
Singapore | 0/15 | 10 | 10  
Slovak Republic | 15 | 10 | 10  
Slovenia (37) | 0/5/15 (37) | 0/5/10 (37) | 10  
South Africa | 5/15 (25) | 0/10 (25) | 5  
Spain | 15 | 10 | 10  
Sri Lanka | 15 | 10 | 10  
Sweden | 15 | 10 | 10  
Switzerland  | 0/5/15 (26) | 0/10 (26) | 5 (26)  
Taipei/Taiwan | 10/15 (27) | 10 | 12.5  
Thailand | 15/20 (28) | 10/25 (28) | 15  
Turkey  | 5/15 (29) | 0/10 (29) | 10  
United Kingdom  | 0/5/15 (31) | 0/10 (31) | 5  
United States | 0/5/15/30 (32) | 0/10/15 (32) | 5 (32)  
Vietnam | 10/15 (33) | 10 | 10  
Notes
  1. Dividends paid to non-residents are exempt from dividend WHT except when paid out of profits of a company that have not borne Australian tax (i.e. unfranked dividends). Dividends include those stock dividends that are taxable. The rates shown apply to dividends on both portfolio investments and substantial holdings other than dividends paid in connection with an Australian PE of the non-resident. Unfranked dividends paid to non-residents are exempt from dividend WHT to the extent that the dividends are declared by the company to be conduit foreign income. There is also a deduction in certain cases to compensate for the company tax on inter-entity distributions where these are on-paid by holding companies to a 100% parent that is a non-resident (_see Dividend income in the section_). Dividends paid to a non-resident in connection with an Australian PE are taxable to the non-resident on a net assessment basis (i.e. the dividend and associated deductions will need to be included in the determination of the non-resident's taxable income, the dividend is not subject to dividend WHT), and a franking tax offset is allowable to the non-resident company for franked dividends received.
  2. Australia's interest WHT rate is limited to 10% of gross interest, although the treaty may allow for a higher maximum limit. An exemption from Australian WHT can be obtained for interest on certain public issues or widely held issues of debentures. Provisions exist to ensure that discounts and other pecuniary benefits derived by non-residents on various forms of financings are subject to interest WHT. Interest paid to non-residents by offshore banking units is exempt from interest WHT where offshore borrowings are used in offshore banking activities (including lending to non-residents). An offshore borrowing is defined as a borrowing from (i) an unrelated non-resident in any currency or (ii) a resident or a related person in a currency other than Australian currency. The interest WHT rates listed above for residents in a treaty country are those that generally apply. It is common for Australia’s tax treaties to include a reduced limit for interest derived by certain government entities and/or financial institutions. One should refer to the relevant treaty for these limits.
  3. Royalties paid to non-residents (except in respect of a PE in Australia of a resident of a treaty country) are subject to 30% WHT (on the gross amount of the royalty), unless a DTA provides for a lesser rate. Tax is generally limited to the indicated percentage of the gross royalty.
  4. For Australian-sourced dividends that are franked under Australia's dividend imputation provisions and paid to a person who directly holds at least 10% of the voting power of the company, the limit is 10% (although note that Australia does not impose WHT on franked dividends). For Argentinean-sourced dividends paid to a person who holds at least 25% of the capital in the company, the limit is 10%. A 15% limit applies to other dividends. Source-country tax is limited to 10% of the gross amount of royalties in relation to copyright of literary, dramatic, musical, or other artistic work; the use of industrial or scientific equipment; the supply of scientific, technical, or industrial knowledge; assistance ancillary to the above; or certain forbearances in respect of the above. Source-country tax is limited to 10% of the net amount of royalties for certain technical assistance. In all other cases, it is limited to 15% of the gross amount of royalties.
  5. The government announced on 4 February 2010 that negotiations to update Australia's tax treaty with Austria would take place in March 2010. No further announcements have been made in relation to the progress of treaty negotiations.
  6. A 5% dividend WHT rate applies to franked dividends paid by an Australian resident company and, in the case of dividends paid by a Canadian resident company (other than a non-resident owned investment corporation), to a company that directly holds at least 10% of the voting power in the dividend company (although note that Australia does not impose WHT on franked dividends). Otherwise, the maximum WHT rate on dividends is 15%.
  7. A 5% dividend WHT rate applies to dividends paid to a company that directly holds at least 10% of the voting power in the company paying the dividends. Otherwise, the maximum WHT rate on dividends is 15%. In respect of interest, a 5% WHT rate applies to interest derived by a financial institution that is unrelated to and dealing wholly independently with the payer. Where the 5% rate does not apply, a 15% WHT rate applies to interest arising in Chile, and a 10% WHT rate applies to interest in all other cases. A 5% royalty WHT rate applies to royalties for the use of, or right to use, any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment, and a 10% royalty WHT rate applies in all other cases.
  8. Except Hong Kong and Macau.
  9. The treaty between Australia and the Czech Republic allows Australia to impose a 5% WHT on the franked part of a dividend in certain circumstances (although note that Australia does not impose WHT on franked dividends). In the Czech Republic, a rate of 5% applies to the gross amount of dividends if the dividends are paid to a company that directly holds at least 20% of the capital of the company paying the dividend. 15% of the gross amount of dividend applies in other cases.
  10. Australia's treaty with Iceland entered into force in relation to WHT from 1 January 2024. Source-country tax on dividends will be generally limited to 15%, subject to an exemption for dividends paid to certain pension funds or government investment funds beneficially holding no more than 10% of the voting power in the company paying the dividend or for dividends paid to a beneficially entitled company that satisfies certain public listing requirements and holds 80% or more of the voting power in the company paying the dividend, and a 5% limit that will apply to dividends paid to companies with voting power of 10% or greater in the dividend paying company. Source-country tax on interest is generally limited to 10%. However, zero interest WHT will be payable where interest is paid to an unrelated financial institution, a government body, central bank, or certain pension funds.
  11. A zero WHT rate applies to inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds 80% or more of the voting power of the company paying the dividend. A 5% rate limit applies on all other inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the company paying the dividend. A 15% rate applies to all other dividends. A rate limit of 10% applies to interest, except no tax is chargeable in the source country on interest derived by a financial institution resident in the other country or a government or political or administrative subdivision or local authority or central bank of the other country. Amounts derived from equipment leasing (including certain container leasing) are excluded from the royalty definition and treated either as international transport operations or business profits.
  12. The source country exempts inter-corporate non-portfolio (i.e. minimum 10% shareholding) dividends paid out of profits that have borne the normal rate of company tax. There is a 5% rate limit for all other non-portfolio dividends. A rate limit of 15% applies for all other dividends. A rate limit of 10% applies to interest, except no tax is chargeable in the source country on interest derived by a financial institution resident in the other country or a government or political or administrative subdivision or local authority or central bank of the other country. Amounts derived from equipment leasing (including certain container leasing) are excluded from the royalty definition and treated either as international transport operations or business profits.
  13. The source-country limit under the Indian agreement is 10% for royalties paid in respect of the use of or rights to use industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment or for the provision of consulting services related to such equipment. In other cases, the limit is 15%.
  14. The source-country limit under the Indonesian agreement is 10% for royalties paid in respect of the use of or the right to use any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment or for the supply of scientific, technical, industrial, or commercial knowledge or information, and it is 15% in other cases.
  15. The source country exempts inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds 80% or more of the voting power of the company paying the dividend and certain limitation of benefit thresholds are met. A 5% rate limit applies on all other inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the company paying the dividend. A rate limit of 10% otherwise applies for dividends. However, where the dividends are paid by a company that is a resident of Japan, which is entitled to a deduction for the dividends in Japan, the rate limit is 15% where more than 50% of the assets of the paying company consist, directly or indirectly, of real property situated in Japan and 10% in all other cases. Special rules apply to distributions to Japanese residents by real estate investment trusts (REITs). A rate limit of 10% applies to interest, except no tax is chargeable in the source country on interest derived by a financial institution resident in the other country or a government or political subdivision or local authority or central bank or other specified entity of the other country. Amounts derived from equipment leasing (including certain container leasing) are excluded from the royalty definition and treated either as international transport operations or business profits.
  16. A zero dividend WHT rate applies to franked dividends paid by an Australian resident company to an entity that directly holds at least 10% of the voting power in the dividend paying company’; otherwise, a 15% WHT rate applies. In relation to dividends paid by a company resident of Malaysia, no WHT applies.
  17. Source-country tax in Malta is limited to the tax chargeable on the profits out of which the dividends are paid.
  18. A zero dividend WHT rate applies to franked dividends paid (in Mexico, those dividends that have been paid from the net profit account) to a company that directly holds at least 10% of the voting power in the dividend paying company. In all other cases, a 15% WHT rate will apply to dividends. Source-country tax is limited to 10% when interest is paid to a bank or an insurance company, derived from bonds and securities that are regularly and substantially traded on a recognised securities market, paid by banks (except where the prior two criteria apply), or paid by the purchaser to the seller of machinery and equipment in connection with a sale on credit. It is 15% in all other cases.
  19. A zero WHT rate applies in certain cases to inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds at least 80% of the voting power in the dividend paying company. A rate of 5% applies on all other inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the company paying the dividend. A general limit of 15% applies for all other dividends. Source-country tax on interest is limited to 10%. However, no tax is chargeable in the source country on interest derived by a government or a political subdivision or local authority of the other country (including a government investment fund or a bank performing central banking functions) or on interest derived by a financial institution that is unrelated to and dealing wholly independently of the payer (excluding interest paid as part of a back-to-back loan arrangement and, for New Zealand payers, where that person has not paid approved issuer levy).
  20. A zero WHT rate applies in certain cases to inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds at least 80% of the voting power in the dividend paying company for the 12-month period prior to payment. A rate of 5% applies to all other inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the company paying the dividend. A general limit of 15% applies to all other dividends. A general rate limit of 10% applies to interest. However, no tax is chargeable in the source country on interest derived by a government of the other country (including its money institutions or a bank performing central banking functions) from the investment of official reserve assets and on interest derived by a financial institution resident in the other country (excluding interest paid as part of a back-to-back loan arrangement).
  21. For Australian-source dividends, the limit is 15%. Where dividends are sourced in Papua New Guinea, the limit is 20%.
  22. Source-country tax is limited to 15% where relief by way of rebate or credit is given to the beneficial owner of the dividend. In any other case, source-country tax is limited to 25%. Source-country tax generally is limited to 15% of gross royalties if paid by an approved Philippines enterprise. In all other cases, the rate is limited to 25% of the gross royalties.
  23. Source-country tax (Australia) is limited to 5% where a dividend is paid to a Romanian resident company that directly holds at least 10% of the capital of the Australian company paying the dividend to the extent that the dividend is fully franked. Source-country tax (Romania) is limited to 5% where a dividend is paid to an Australian resident company that directly holds at least 10% of the capital of the Romanian company paying the dividend if the dividend is paid out of profits that have been subject to Romanian profits tax. In other cases, it is limited to 15%.
  24. Source-country tax generally is limited to 15%. However, a rate of 5% applies where the dividends have been fully taxed at the corporate level, the recipient is a company that has a minimum direct holding in the paying company, and the recipient has invested a minimum of AUD 700,000 or the Russian ruble equivalent in the paying company. Where the dividends are paid by a company that is a resident in Russia, the dividends are exempt from Australian tax.
  25. A 5% rate limit applies on all inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the company paying the dividend. A rate limit of 15% otherwise applies for dividends. A general rate limit of 10% applies to interest. However, no tax is chargeable in the source country on interest derived by a government of the other country (including a bank performing central banking functions) and on interest derived by a financial institution resident in the other country (excluding interest paid as part of a back-to-back loan arrangement).
  26. The DTA applies a 5% WHT rate to dividends paid to companies that hold directly 10% or more of the voting power of the paying company. Dividends paid to publicly listed companies, or subsidiaries thereof, or to unlisted companies in certain circumstances, that hold 80% or more of the voting power of the paying company will be exempt from dividend WHT. Dividends paid to government or a political subdivision or local authority (including a government investment fund), a central bank, complying Australian superannuation funds, and tax exempt Swiss pension schemes will also be exempt from dividend WHT. In all other cases, a 15% WHT rate will apply. A general rate limit of 10% applies to interest. However, interest paid to bodies exercising governmental functions, banks performing central banking functions, banks that are unrelated to and dealing independently with the payer, complying Australian superannuation funds, and tax exempt Swiss pension schemes are exempt from interest WHT. The DTA applies a 5% WHT on royalties.
  27. Source-country tax (Taiwan) is limited to 10% of the gross amount of the dividends paid to a company that holds at least 25% of the capital of the company paying the dividends. A rate of 15% applies in all other cases. To the extent that dividends are franked because they are paid out of profits that have borne Australian tax, they are exempt from dividend WHT (_See Note 1 above_). The treaty allows Australia to impose a 10% WHT on the franked part of a dividend.
  28. The source-country limit on dividends where the recipient has a minimum 25% direct holding in the paying company is 15% if the paying company engages in an industrial undertaking; 20% in other cases. The source-country limit on interest is 10% when interest is paid to a financial institution.
  29. A 5% WHT rate applies to inter-corporate dividends where the recipient directly owns 10% of the voting power of an Australian resident company or directly owns 25% of the capital of a Turkish resident company where the profits out of which the dividend is paid has been subject to the full rate of corporation tax in Turkey. In all other cases, a 15% WHT rate will apply. The DTA applies a general limit of 10% WHT on interest. However, interest derived from the investment of official reserve assets by either the Australian or Turkish government, the Australian or Turkish central bank, or a bank performing central banking functions in either Australia or Turkey shall be exempt from interest WHT.
  30. Australia signed a new treaty with Portugal on 30 November 2023 (that is yet to enter into force). Source-country tax on dividends will be generally limited to 15%, subject to a 5% rate for dividends paid to certain pension funds or government investment funds beneficially holding no more than 10% of the voting power in the company paying the dividend, and to dividends paid to companies with voting power of 10% or greater in the dividend paying company. Source-country tax on interest is generally limited to 10%. However, zero interest WHT will be payable where interest is paid to government and central banks and a 5% rate for tax-exempt Portuguese pension funds, Australian superannuation funds, and independent financial institutions.
  31. Source-country tax on dividends is generally limited to 15%. However, an exemption applies for dividends paid to a listed company that satisfies certain public listing requirements and controls 80% or more of the voting power in the company paying the dividend, and a 5% limit applies to dividends paid to other companies with voting power of 10% or greater in the dividend paying company. Source-country tax on interest is generally limited to 10%. However, generally zero interest WHT is payable where interest is paid to a financial institution or a government body exercising governmental functions.
  32. Source-country tax on dividends is generally limited to 15%. No source country tax is chargeable on dividends to a beneficially entitled company that satisfies certain public listing requirements and holds 80% or more of the voting power in the company paying the dividend. A 5% limit applies to dividends paid to other companies with voting power of 10% or greater in the dividend paying company. No limit applies to US tax on dividends paid on certain substantial holdings of Australian residents in US REITs. In practical terms, US tax on these dividends is increased from 15% to the current US domestic law rate of 30%. The 15% rate applies to REIT investments made by certain listed Australian property trusts subject to the underlying ownership requirements not exceeding certain levels. Investments in REITs by listed Australian property trusts acquired before 26 March 2001 are protected from the increased rate. Source-country tax on interest generally is limited to 10%. However, generally zero interest WHT is payable where interest is paid to a financial institution or a government body exercising governmental functions. Rules consistent with US tax treaty policy and practice will allow interest to be taxed at a higher 15% rate (the rate that generally applies to dividends) and for tax to be charged on intra-entity interest payments between a branch and its head office. Amounts derived from equipment leasing (including container leasing) are excluded from the royalty definition.
  33. Source-country tax is limited to 15% (Australia) and 10% (Vietnam).
  34. Source-country tax on dividends will be generally limited to 15%, subject to an exemption for dividends paid to a beneficially entitled company that satisfies certain public listing requirements and holds 80% or more of the voting power in the company paying the dividend and a 5% limit that will apply to dividends paid to companies with voting power of 10% or greater in the dividend paying company. Source-country tax on interest is generally limited to 10%. However, zero interest WHT will be payable where interest is paid to a financial institution or a government body exercising governmental functions.
  35. Source-country tax on dividends will be generally limited to 15%, subject to an exemption for dividends paid to certain pension funds or government investment funds beneficially holding less than 10% of the voting power in the company paying the dividend and a 5% limit that will apply to dividends paid to companies with voting power of 10% or greater in the dividend paying company. Source-country tax on interest is generally limited to 10%. However, a 5% rate applies to interest payable to an unrelated financial institution or certain pension funds, and there is no interest WHT payable where interest is paid to a government body or central bank.
  36. Where the recipient does not quote a Tax File Number (or Australian Business Number), the payer is obligated to withhold tax at the rate of 47% under the Pay-As-You-Go (PAYG) withholding regime. No withholding is required in relation to franked dividends.
  37. Australia signed a new treaty with Slovenia on 9 September 2024 (that is yet to enter into force). A WHT rate of 10% on dividends applies generally, with a reduced 5% rate available for intercorporate dividends on non-portfolio holdings of at least 10%. An exemption is available for dividends derived by tax-exempt Slovenian recognised pension funds or Australian superannuation funds that have holdings of less than 10% of the paying company. A 5% WHT rate applies to interest derived by an unrelated and independent financial institution, provided that the interest is not paid as part of an arrangement involving back-to-back loans or other equivalent arrangements. No WHT applies to interest derived by governments, central banks, tax-exempt Slovenian pension funds, Australian recognised pension funds, and specified government investment funds. A general 10% interest WHT rate applies in other cases.


The Australian government plans to enter into a number of new and updated tax treaties. Meanwhile negotiations with Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, India, and Luxembourg are currently underway, with plans to enter into new tax treaty negotiations with Colombia, Cyprus, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.
## Other payments
A PAYG withholding regime applies to require the deduction and remittance of taxes on behalf of foreign resident individuals and entities that are in receipt of the following types of payments:
Type of payment | Rate of withholding (%)  
---|---  
Payments for promoting or organising casino gaming junket arrangements | 3  
Payments for performing artists and sportspersons, including payments to support staff such as art directors, bodyguards, coaches, hairdressers, and personal trainers:  
if recipient is a company | 30  
if recipient is an individual | the applicable non-resident marginal tax rate  
Payments under contracts entered into for the construction, installation, and upgrading of buildings, plant, and fixtures, and for associated activities | 5  
## Managed investment trust (MIT) distributions
For MIT fund payments to a non-resident investor, a WHT regime applies, with divergent outcomes, depending upon whether or not the recipient of such fund payments is resident of a country identified as being one with which Australia has an effective exchange of information (EEOI) arrangement and which is regulated as such for purposes of these rules. For a resident of a regulated EEOI country, a final WHT at a 15% rate broadly applies to MIT distributions. For residents of non-EEOI regulated countries, a final WHT at a 30% rate applies.
The MIT withholding rate on income attributable to a trading business, amounts from certain cross-staple arrangements, and rents from agricultural land and certain residential housing is set at a rate equal to the top corporate tax rate (i.e. 30%), rather than 15% (other than for certain pre-existing arrangements held immediately before 27 March 2018).
Distributions from an MIT that holds only certified 'clean buildings' are eligible for a reduced rate of WHT of 10% where the recipient of the fund payment is a resident of a regulated EEOI country. The government proposes from 1 July 2025 to extend the clean building MIT WHT concession to data centres and warehouses that meet a relevant energy efficiency standard, where construction commences after 7:30 pm (AEST) on 9 May 2023. A higher minimum energy efficiency rating is also proposed to apply to buildings to which the existing clean building MIT regime applies.
New law applies to reduce the MIT WHT rate to 15% on payment of amounts on or after 1 July 2024 referable to rental income or a capital gain from newly constructed eligible residential build-to-rent properties.
Australia has an attribution tax regime that certain MITs (known as attribution managed investment trusts or AMITs) can choose to adopt. The allocation of trust components to the members of an AMIT will be based on an ‘attribution’ rather than based on present entitlement to distributable income. Members of an AMIT will be taxed on the parts of the AMIT's trust components that are attributed to them as if they derived those amounts in their own right and in the same circumstances as the AMIT.


# Australia
## Corporate - Other issues
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
## Common Reporting Standard (CRS) and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA)
The Australian and United States governments have an intergovernmental agreement (IGA) in relation to the implementation of FATCA. The agreement is intended to establish a framework to assist Australian financial institutions in meeting their obligations under FATCA.
Australia's domestic law gives effect to the IGA and requires Australian financial institutions to collect information about their customers that are likely to be taxpayers in the United States, and report that information to the ATO. The Australian Commissioner of Taxation will then pass this information on to the US Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 
Australia has also adopted the OECD’s Common Reporting Standard (CRS). Financial Institutions, including banks and other deposit-taking institutions, custodial institutions, or entities that hold financial assets for the account of others, are required to report information in the form of an annual CRS report to the Commissioner of Taxation about financial accounts held by foreign tax residents. The annual CRS report is due to be lodged with the ATO for the previous calendar year by 31 July each year. In turn, the Commissioner of Taxation will provide this information to the foreign residents’ tax authorities and will receive information on Australian tax residents with financial accounts held overseas.
The Australian government is also currently consulting on options for Australia’s implementation of the OECD-developed Crypto Asset Reporting Framework (CARF), a new tax transparency framework that provides an international standard for the automatic exchange of crypto-related account information between revenue tax authorities.
## OECD Multilateral Convention
Australia has signed the OECD Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS), which has effect for applicable Covered Tax Agreements from as early as 1 January 2019. The Multilateral Instrument (MLI) provides participating jurisdictions with a means to swiftly modify Australia's bilateral treaties to implement measures developed as part of the OECD/G20 BEPS Project without having to negotiate changes on a treaty-by-treaty basis.
## Transparency
The Commissioner of Taxation is required to publish limited information about the tax affairs of public and foreign-owned companies and Australian-owned private companies with total income of at least AUD 100 million for an income year, as reported in the entity’s tax return, and those with a liability to pay the PRRT. The published information discloses the entity’s name, Australian Business Number, total income, taxable income, and tax payable.
All companies with an annual turnover of AUD 100 million or more are encouraged to adopt a Voluntary Tax Transparency Code (TTC) for increased public disclosure of their tax information.
Australian public companies (both listed and unlisted) are required to disclose information on their subsidiaries and their country of tax residence in their financial statements for financial years commencing from 1 July 2023.
New reporting rules apply to CbC reporting parent entities with an Australian presence, which require them to prepare for public release of certain tax information on a CbC basis and a statement on their approach to taxation for income years commencing on or after 1 July 2024.
Tenderers for Australian government contracts worth more than AUD 200,000 are also required to disclose their country of tax residence (including their ultimate head parent's country of tax residence, in addition to the existing Statement of Tax Record requirements, _see further below_).
## Foreign investment tax conditions
Foreign investors that invest in Australia are subject to additional criteria as part of the clearance process for proposed foreign investment in Australia. Tax conditions are formally applied and will be considered in making an assessment of Australia’s national interest, a key criterion in the foreign investment clearance process. These tax conditions may include requirements relating to the settlement of outstanding debts, ongoing compliance with tax laws, and annual reporting to the ATO. More recently, the government has stated that additional scrutiny will be applied to foreign investment proposals with certain tax characteristics likely to be considered higher risk, including internal reorganisations, pre-sale structuring steps, high-risk related-party financing arrangements, and migration of assets to jurisdictions with low tax rates.
Furthermore, the government has said that it will take appropriate and proportionate action to mitigate identified tax risks through applying conditions on the transaction while the Treasury or the ATO may also commence reviews following completion of any proposed acquisition(s).
In addition, a new ‘Register of foreign ownership of Australian assets’ (FIRB asset register) commenced on 1 July 2023, requiring ‘foreign persons’ (which broadly covers foreign entities and Australian entities with upstream foreign ownership) to register a broad range of assets within 30 days of acquiring the asset. The key type of assets that must be registered are water interests, land (including freehold and leasehold), exploration tenements, businesses, and entities.
## Sovereign entities
An entity that meets the definition of a ‘sovereign entity’ is liable to pay Australian tax other than where it is covered by a specific limited exemption. The income tax (and withholding tax) exemption typically will apply to returns on a less than 10% ‘portfolio-like’ interest in an Australian company or MIT and where no member of the sovereign entity group has influence (either directly or indirectly) over decisions that comprise the control and direction of the operations of the Australian company or MIT. As the scope of the exemption was significantly narrowed in 2018, transitional rules can apply to returns on an investment asset acquired by a sovereign entity on or before 27 March 2018.
## Statement of Tax Record
All businesses that tender for a Commonwealth Government procurement contract over AUD 4 million are required to have a satisfactory Statement of Tax Record issued by the Australian Taxation Office (ATO), which focuses on up-to-date tax registrations, on-time tax lodgments, and tax payment obligations being met. The requirements also apply to first tier subcontractors where the estimated sub-contract value will be at least AUD 4 million.
## Mandatory disclosure rules
Australia is embarking on a range of mandatory disclosure rules in relation to taxation (_see above for current and proposed transparency related initiatives_).


# Australia
## Corporate - Income determination
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
## Inventory valuation
Inventory generally may be valued at cost (full absorption cost), market selling value, or replacement price. Where, because of obsolescence or other special circumstances, inventory should be valued at a lower amount, the lower valuation generally may be chosen, provided it is a reasonable valuation. Special rules apply, however, regarding the valuation of trading stock for certain companies joining a consolidated group. Last in first out (LIFO) is not an acceptable basis of determining cost, nor is direct costing in respect of manufactured goods and work-in-progress.
Conformity is not required between book and tax reporting. For tax purposes, inventory may be valued at cost, market selling value, or replacement price, regardless of how inventory is valued for book purposes. Those who choose to come within the small-medium business entity measures (broadly defined as taxpayers who carry on business and who, together with certain 'connected' entities, have an aggregated turnover of less than AUD 50 million) may ignore the difference between the opening and closing value of inventory if, on a reasonable estimate, this is not more than AUD 5,000.
## Capital gains
A capital gains tax (CGT) applies to assets acquired on or after 20 September 1985. Capital gains realised on the disposal of such assets are included in assessable income and are subject to tax at the corporate tax rate. In order to determine the quantum of any gain for any assets acquired before 21 September 1999, the cost base is indexed according to price movements since acquisition, as measured by the official CPI until 30 September 1999. There is no indexation of the cost base for price movements from 1 October 1999. Disposals of plant and equipment are subject to general rules rather than the CGT rules. Capital losses are allowable as deductions only against capital gains and cannot be offset against other income. In calculating capital losses, there is no indexation of the cost base.
Companies that are tax residents in Australia generally are liable for the tax on gains on the disposal of assets wherever situated, subject to relief from double taxation if the gain is derived and taxed in another country. However, the capital gain or capital loss incurred by a company from a CGT event in relation to shares in a foreign company is reduced by a percentage reflecting the degree to which the foreign company's assets are used in an active business if the company holds a direct voting percentage of 10% or more in the foreign company for a certain period before the CGT event. Attributable income from CGT events happening to shares owned by a controlled foreign company (CFC) are reduced in the same way. Capital gains and capital losses made by a resident company in respect of CGT events happening in respect of 'non-tainted' assets used to produce foreign income in carrying on business through a PE in a foreign country are disregarded in certain circumstances.
Non-resident companies are subject to Australian CGT only where the assets are taxable Australian property (i.e. Australian real property, or the business assets of Australian branches of a non-resident). Australian CGT also applies to indirect Australian real property interests, being non-portfolio interests in interposed entities (including foreign interposed entities), where the value of such an interest is wholly or principally attributable to Australian real property. 'Real property' for these purposes currently covers Australian assets with a physical connection with Australia, such as mining rights and other interests related to Australian real property, but is proposed to be broadened with effect from 1 July 2025 to include assets “with a close economic connection to Australian land”. A 'non-portfolio interest' is an interest held alone or with associates of 10% or more in the interposed entity.
Proceeds from the sale of certain taxable Australian property by a non-resident are subject to a non-final WHT for contracts entered into from 1 January 2025 of 15% (previously 12.5%) of the proceeds.
## Dividend income
A 'gross-up and credit' mechanism applies to franked dividends (dividends paid out of profits that have been subject to Australian tax) received by Australian companies. The corporate shareholder grosses up the dividend received for tax paid by the paying company (i.e. franking credits attaching to the dividend) and is then entitled to a tax offset (i.e. a reduction of tax) equal to the gross-up amount. A company with an excess tax offset entitlement converts the excess into a carryforward tax loss using a special formula.
Dividends paid to another resident company that are unfranked (because they are paid out of profits not subject to Australian tax) are taxable, unless they are paid within a group that has chosen to be consolidated for tax purposes. Dividends paid between companies within a tax consolidated group are ignored for the purposes of determining the taxable income of the group.
Franked dividends paid to non-residents are exempt from dividend WHT.
An exemption from WHT is also available for dividends received by non-resident shareholders (or unitholders) in an Australian corporate tax entity (CTE) to the extent that they are ‘unfranked’ and are declared to be conduit foreign income (CFI). These rules may also treat the CFI component of an unfranked dividend received by an Australian CTE from another Australian CTE as not taxable to the recipient, provided it is on-paid within a specified timeframe. Broadly, income will qualify as CFI if it is foreign income, including certain dividends, or foreign gains, which are not assessable for Australian income tax purposes or for which a foreign income tax offset has been claimed in Australia.
Non-portfolio dividends repatriated to an Australian resident company from a company resident in a foreign country will be non-assessable, non-exempt income, but only if it is a distribution paid on an equity interest as determined under Australian tax law.
Income of a non-resident entity in which Australian residents hold interests is not assessable when repatriated to Australia where the income has been previously attributed to those residents and taxed in Australia (_see Controlled foreign companies [CFCs] in the section for more information_).
### Stock dividends
Stock dividends, or the issue of bonus shares, as they are known under Australian law, are, in general, not taxed as a dividend, and the tax treatment is the spreading of the cost base of the original shares across the original shares and the bonus shares. However, if a company credits its share capital account with profits when issuing bonus shares, this will taint the share capital account (if it is not already a tainted share capital account), causing the bonus share issue to be a dividend. Certain other rules may apply to bonus share issues, depending on the facts.
## Financial arrangements
Special rules apply to the taxation of financial arrangements (TOFA). 'Financial arrangement' is widely defined to cover arrangements that involve a cash settlable legal or equitable right to receive, or obligation to provide, something of economic value in the future.
These measures provide six tax-timing methods for determining gains or losses in respect of financial arrangements, along with revenue account treatment of the resulting gains or losses to the extent that the gain or loss is made in earning assessable income or carrying on a business for that purpose. The default methods are the accruals method and the realisation method, one or other of which will apply depending on the relevant facts and circumstances of a particular financial arrangement. In broad terms, the accruals method will apply to spread an overall gain or loss over the life of the financial arrangement (or a particular gain or loss over the period to which it relates) where there is sufficient certainty that the expected gain or loss will actually occur. A gain or loss that is not sufficiently certain is dealt with under the realisation method.
Alternatively, a taxpayer may irrevocably choose one or more of four elective methods (i.e. fair value, retranslation, financial reports, and hedging) to determine the tax treatment of financial arrangements covered by the election. Qualification criteria must be met before the elective methods may be used. Generally, these criteria require that the taxpayer prepare a financial report in accordance with Australian (or comparable) accounting standards and that it be audited in accordance with Australian (or comparable) auditing standards.
Exemptions from this regime may be available having regard to the duration of the arrangement or the nature of the relevant taxpayer and the annual turnover or value of assets of that taxpayer. Certain types of financial arrangements are excluded from these rules, including leasing and hire purchase arrangements. Foreign residents are taxable on gains from financial arrangements under these measures to the extent that the gains have an Australian source.
## Royalty income
Royalties are generally subject to taxation as ordinary income.
However, royalties paid to a non-resident (other than where it is received in respect of a PE in Australia of a resident of a treaty country) are subject to a final WHT applied to the gross amount of the royalty. Royalties for WHT purposes covers payments that fall within the ordinary meaning of the term as well as certain specified payments (e.g. payments for the use of, or the right to use, copyright, patent, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, trademark, or any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment; the supply of scientific, technical, industrial, or commercial knowledge or information; the supply of any assistance that is ancillary and subsidiary to, and is furnished as a means of enabling the application or enjoyment of any of the aforementioned rights, equipment, or information; and the use of, or the right to use, visual images and/or sounds in connection with television or radio broadcasting that are transmitted by satellite, cable, optic fibre, or similar technology), subject to the application of any DTA. Generally, payments for services will not constitute the payment of a royalty. _See the section for further information_.
## Foreign exchange gains and losses
Foreign currency gains and losses are recognised when realised, regardless of whether there is a conversion into Australian dollars, and are included in or deducted from assessable income, subject to limited exceptions. 
For foreign exchange gains and losses associated with financial arrangements subject to the TOFA measures (), the compliance impact of the foreign exchange rules will be reduced for those taxpayers who are eligible to and elect the TOFA retranslation or financial reports tax-timing methods which will broadly have the effect of recognising for tax purposes the same foreign exchange gains or losses reported for accounting purposes.
To reduce compliance costs for foreign currency denominated bank accounts that are not subject to the TOFA rules, some taxpayers may elect to disregard gains or losses on certain low balance transaction accounts that satisfy a  exemption or may elect for retranslation by annually restating the balance of the account by reference to deposits, withdrawals, and the exchange rates at the beginning and end of each year (or by reference to amounts reported in accordance with applicable accounting standards).
There are also exceptions to the timing and/or characterisation aspects of the realisation approach where the foreign currency gain or loss is closely linked to a capital asset or where the particular financial arrangement is subject to the hedging elections under the TOFA rules. 
Entities or parts of entities, satisfying certain requirements, are able to choose to account for their activities in a currency other than Australian dollars for income tax purposes as an intermediate step to translating the result into Australian dollars (known as the 'functional currency' choice).
## Foreign income
The current basis upon which the foreign income of corporations resident in Australia is taxed is set out below.
  * Foreign dividends or distributions paid on equity interests as defined for Australian income tax purposes (i.e. the exemption does not apply to dividends paid on legal form shares that are treated as debt interests) are exempt from tax when received by a resident corporate tax entity that holds at least a 10% participation interest in the foreign company. The exemption also applies to distributions received indirectly (e.g. via a trust) by resident companies. However, hybrid mismatch rules may operate to limit the exemption (_see the section for more information_).
  * Active foreign branch profits of a resident company from carrying on business through a PE in a foreign country and capital gains made by a resident company from the disposal of non-tainted assets used in deriving foreign branch income (except income and capital gains from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic) are not assessable for tax.
  * Other foreign income of Australian resident corporations is subject to tax; however, in most cases, an offset for foreign income tax paid is allowed to the extent of Australian tax payable on such income.
  * Generally, limited partnerships are treated as companies for Australian tax purposes. In certain circumstances, foreign limited partnerships, foreign limited liability partnerships, United States (US) limited liability companies, and United Kingdom (UK) limited liability partnerships are treated as partnerships (i.e. as a flow-through entity) rather than as a company for the purposes of Australia's income tax laws.
  * Australia also has a comprehensive CFC regime. _See Controlled foreign companies (CFCs) in the section for more information_.




# Australia
## Corporate - Taxes on corporate income
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
Companies, other than those that qualify as a CCIV (_see below_), that are residents of Australia are subject to Australian income tax on their worldwide income. Generally, non-resident companies are subject to Australian income tax on Australian-sourced income only. However, where a company is resident in a country with which Australia has concluded a double taxation agreement (DTA), Australia's right to tax business profits is generally limited to profits attributable to a permanent establishment (PE) in Australia.
All companies are subject to a federal tax rate of 30% on their taxable income, except for ‘small or medium business’ companies, which are subject to a reduced tax rate of 25%. The reduced tax rate applies only to those companies that, together with certain 'connected' entities, fall below the aggregated turnover threshold of 50 million Australian dollars (AUD).
Integrity measures also ensure that a company will not qualify for the reduced rate unless the specifically defined passive income (including, among other things, interest, rents, and net capital gains) that it derives represents no more than 80% of its total assessable income for the year. 
A new tax and regulatory framework applies to corporate collective investment vehicles (CCIVs) with effect from 1 July 2022. In general terms, a CCIV is a type of a company limited by shares that is used for funds management and for which the tax law applies to ensure that the income and gains of the entity are taxed on a flow-through basis to the investors.
## Global minimum tax and domestic minimum tax
Australia has implemented the Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE) Rules, a key component of the OECD’s Two-Pillar Solution to address the tax challenges of digitalisation of the economy. Specifically, the following elements of the global minimum tax are legislated:
  * The Income Inclusion Rule, which applies for income years starting on or after 1 January 2024. This rule applies to Australian multinationals and Australian entities that are subsidiaries of a foreign-headquartered multinational located in a jurisdiction that has not implemented this rule.
  * The Undertaxed Profits Rule, which applies for income years starting on or after 1 January 2025. Where no Income Inclusion Rule applies, the Undertaxed Profits Rule will apply to foreign multinationals that operate in Australia.


In addition, a 15% domestic minimum tax applies to income years starting on or after 1 January 2024 for Australian operations of multinationals and will ensure that Australia retains taxing rights over undertaxed Australian profits.
The substantive computation of the above top-up taxes is included in subordinate legislation which was registered on 23 December 2024.
The global minimum tax and the domestic minimum tax applies to large multinationals with annual global revenue of 750 million euros (EUR) or more, subject to certain exemptions.
## Local income taxes
There are no state or municipal taxes on income in Australia.


# Australia
## Corporate - Other taxes
Last reviewed - 24 December 2024
## Goods and services tax (GST)
The Federal Government levies GST at a rate of 10% and distributes the revenue to state governments. The GST is a value-added tax (VAT) applied at each level in the manufacturing and marketing chain and applies to most goods and services, with registered suppliers getting credits for GST on inputs acquired to make taxable supplies.
Food, with some significant exceptions; exports; most health, medical, and educational supplies; and some other supplies are 'GST-free' (the equivalent of 'zero-rated' in other VAT jurisdictions) and so not subject to GST. A registered supplier of a GST-free supply can recover relevant input tax credits, although the supply is not taxable.
Residential rents, the second or later supply of residential premises, most financial supplies, and some other supplies are 'input-taxed' ('exempt' in other VAT jurisdictions) and are not subject to GST. However, the supplier cannot recover relevant input tax credits, except that financial suppliers may obtain a reduced input tax credit of 75% of the GST on the acquisition of certain services.
Health insurance is GST-free. Life insurance is input-taxed. General insurance is taxed. Reverse charges may apply to services or rights supplied from offshore, where the recipient is registered or required to be registered, and uses the supply solely or partly for a non-creditable supply.
GST is applicable to cross-border supplies of digital products and services imported by Australian consumers. This measure ensures that digital products and other imported services supplied to Australian consumers by foreign entities are subject to the GST. Non-resident suppliers are required to register, collect, and remit GST on the digital products and services that they provide to Australian consumers.
The way Australia's GST rules apply to all cross-border supplies that involve non-resident entities operate to ensure that non-resident businesses do not have to engage in Australia’s GST system unnecessarily. This includes switching off the GST liability for certain supplies between non-residents and extending the GST-free rules to certain supplies made to non-residents.
There is no double taxation of digital currencies by ensuring that supplies of digital currency receive equivalent GST treatment to supplies of money.
GST is payable on certain supplies of low-value goods (valued at AUD 1,000 or less) that are purchased by consumers and are imported into Australia.
## Wine equalisation tax (WET)
The Federal Government levies WET at the wholesale level at a rate of 29%, in addition to 10% GST, which is calculated on the price including the WET, and it applies to wine from grapes, fruit and certain vegetables, mead, and sake. Retailers do not receive an input tax credit for WET. A rebate is available to a wine producer of 29% of the wholesale price (excluding WET or GST) for wholesale sales, and of 29% of the notional wholesale selling price for retail sales and applications for own use (up to a maximum rebate for each financial year of AUD 350,000).
## Luxury car tax
The luxury car tax is levied by the Federal Government at the rate of 33% of the value of the car that exceeds the luxury car tax threshold (AUD 91,387 [89,332] for fuel-efficient vehicles and AUD 80,567 [76,950] for other vehicles in the 2024/25 [2023/24] financial year) and is payable on the GST-exclusive value above the threshold. No input tax credit is available for luxury car tax, regardless of whether the car is used for business or private purposes.
Subject to the passage of legislation, for taxable supplies and taxable importations of luxury cars on or after 1 July 2025 (subject to transitional provisions), the definition of a fuel-efficient vehicle is to be tightened to ensure only electric vehicles or vehicles that are at least partially electrified qualify and also to align the indexation rates that apply to the fuel efficient and other luxury car tax thresholds.
## Customs duties
Imports into Australia are subject to duties under the Australian Customs Tariff unless an exemption applies. The top duty rate is 5%.
There is no customs duty on imported electric vehicles, plug-in hybrid vehicles, and hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles with a customs value less than the fuel-efficient luxury car tax threshold (_see above_).
Australia currently has comprehensive free trade agreements with Chile, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, Thailand, the United Kingdom, and the United States. In addition, there is an ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA) between ASEAN member states (Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam), Australia, and New Zealand and a Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) between Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, and Vietnam. A regional comprehensive economic partnership free trade agreement also operates between Australia, New Zealand, and Southeast Asian nations (Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar (not yet in force), the Philippines, Republic of Korea, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam). A Pacific Agreement on Closer Economic Relations (PACER) Plus, which is a regional development-centred trade agreement between Australia, New Zealand, and nine Pacific Island countries (Cook Islands, Kiribati, Nauru (not yet ratified), Niue, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) also applies. At time of writing, the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) has been signed, and will enter into force in due course, in accordance with Australia’s domestic treaty making process. Negotiations are also underway with the European Union, as are negotiations for a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA) with India. In addition, consideration is being given to an agreement covering the Gulf Cooperation Council countries (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates).
## Excise duties
Excise duties are imposed at high levels on beer, spirits, liqueurs, tobacco, cigarettes, and petroleum products. Excise rates for tobacco, alcohol, and fuel are indexed bi-annually based on movements in the consumer price index (CPI), although there was a one-off increase of 5% per year for three years in addition to normal indexation for tobacco from 1 September 2023.
A fuel tax credit system provides a credit for fuel tax (excise or customs duty) that is included in the price of taxable fuel. Broadly, credits are available to entities using fuel in their business and to households using fuel for domestic electricity generation and heating.
## Property tax
All states and territories (except the Northern Territory) impose a tax based on the unimproved capital value of land. In general, the principal place of residence and land used for primary production is exempt from land tax.
Many states also have a land tax surcharge regime for foreign/absentee owners. The state of Victoria also imposes an annual 1% vacant residential land tax on the capital improved value of certain vacant land.
Additionally, the state of Victoria has a windfall gains tax that applies to the increase in value of land in Victoria resulting from a rezoning that takes effect on or after 1 July 2023, subject to certain transitional arrangements. When the taxable value uplift of all land owned by an owner or group resulting from the same rezoning is between AUD 100,000 and AUD 500,000, the tax is calculated at a rate of 62.5% on the uplift in excess of AUD 100,000. For taxable value uplifts exceeding AUD 500,000, the tax is calculated at a rate of 50% on the whole uplift.
In the state of Victoria, a short stay levy applies for stays of less than 28 days in short stay accommodation from 1 January 2025. A rate of 7.5% is applied to the total booking fee. Certain premises are excluded from the levy, including commercial residential premises.
## Stamp duty
All states and territories impose a stamp duty on a wide variety of transactions at different rates. All jurisdictions impose a stamp duty on real estate conveyances (and some states also apply additional duty to foreign purchasers of residential property), but most exempt conveyances of goods (not associated with other property) from stamp duty. The imposition of duty on share transfers involving unlisted entities differs from state to state. Corporate reconstruction exemptions are available.
Advice from a stamp duty specialist should usually be obtained where substantial stamp duty may be imposed because the amount of duty may depend on the form of the transaction.
From 1 July 2024, the state of Victoria is moving away from imposing stamp duty on the purchase of commercial or industrial property to an annual commercial and industrial property tax (CIPT) for such properties with a ‘qualifying use’. Where a qualifying property is sold from 1 July 2024, it will transition into the new regime, with stamp duty payable one final time (with transition loans available from the Victorian Treasury to fund the payment). After ten years, CIPT will apply at a rate of 1% of the property’s unimproved land value and will be assessed on a calendar year basis. CIPT is separate from, and in addition to, existing taxes that apply to land. Land that is already exempt from Victorian land tax will not be subject to the CIPT.
## Environmental taxes
Australia does not impose a tax on carbon emissions or have an emissions trading scheme. However, there is the Clean Energy Regulator, who can issue Australian Carbon Credit Units (ACCUs) and safeguard mechanism credit units (SMCs) for greenhouse gas abatement activities undertaken as part of the Australian government’s Emissions Reduction Fund. Each ACCU and SMC represents one tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent net abatement (through either emissions reductions or carbon sequestration) achieved by eligible activities. ACCUs that have not been surrendered, cancelled, or relinquished can be traded. 
Some states and local government agencies in Australia may impose waste levies. The state of Victoria had a road-user charge that applied to Victorian registered zero and low-emission vehicles, but this was found to be constitutionally invalid. 
Australia imposes Federal excise duty on a number of fuel and petroleum products with a fuel tax credit system in place (_see above_).
Discrete tax concessions related to environmental matters have been enacted. For example, a concessional WHT rate of 10% can apply to distributions from a managed investment trust (MIT) that holds only ‘clean buildings’ (_see the section for further details_).
## Fringe benefits tax (FBT)
The Federal Government levies FBT on employers at the rate of 47% on the 'grossed-up value' of non-salary and wages fringe benefits provided to employees (and/or the employee's associates) by the employer or associates. The grossing-up of the value ensures tax neutrality between providing benefits and cash remuneration. FBT generally is deductible for income tax purposes.
There are some exemptions from FBT, including some minor benefits, remote area housing in certain circumstances, specified relocation costs, and COVID-19 tests (including polymerase chain reaction and rapid antigen tests) to determine whether the individual can attend or remain at their place of work. An FBT exemption applies for car fringe benefits comprising the use or availability for use of an eligible car that is a zero or low emissions vehicle first held and used on or after 1 July 2022 where its first retail sale value was below the luxury car tax threshold for fuel-efficient vehicles (_see above_). From 1 April 2025, a plug-in hybrid electric vehicle will not be considered a low emissions vehicle under FBT law.
In addition, there are some concessional valuation rules, in particular for motor vehicles and certain living-away-from-home benefits.
## Payroll tax
States and territories impose a tax on employers' payroll (broadly defined). The various jurisdictions have harmonised their payroll tax legislation, but some differences remain, particularly tax rates and the thresholds for exempting employers whose annual payroll is below a certain level, after taking into account grouping rules. For example, in New South Wales, the rate for the year ended 30 June 2025 is 5.45% with an annual exemption threshold of AUD 1,200,000. In Victoria, the general rate for the year ended 30 June 2025 is 4.85% (except for regional Victorian employers, where it is 1.2125%), and the annual exemption threshold is AUD 900,000. A variety of rates and thresholds apply in other state and territory jurisdictions.
A mental health and wellbeing surcharge applies in certain states. For example, Victoria imposes the levy at a rate 0.5% of annual Victorian taxable wages exceeding AUD 10 million and an additional 0.5% on annual Victorian taxable wages exceeding AUD 100 million. Similarly, a mental health levy applies in Queensland to employers and groups of employers who pay more than AUD 10 million in annual Australian taxable wages and is imposed on Queensland taxable wages exceeding the thresholds at a primary rate of 0.25% and an additional 0.5% for those with annual Australian taxable wages in excess of AUD 100 million. The thresholds are adjusted for those who also pay interstate wages or employ for less than the full financial year.
## Superannuation guarantee (SG) levy
Legislation requires employers to contribute a certain percentage of an employee's earnings base, subject to limited exceptions, to a registered superannuation fund or retirement savings account on behalf of the employee. Failure to make these contributions will result in the employer being liable for a non-deductible SG charge.
The SG percentage until 30 June 2025 is 11.5%. From 1 July 2025, the SG percentage is permanently increased to 12%. 
No level of Australian government imposes a social security levy.
## Major Bank Levy
Australia has implemented a levy (known as the Major Bank Levy) on Australian authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADIs) with total liabilities of greater than AUD 100 billion. The levy is imposed at a rate of 0.015% on certain liabilities of the ADI that are reported to the regulator on a quarterly basis under a reporting standard.
## Insurance tax
States impose taxes on insurance premiums, which may be substantial.
## Petroleum Resource Rent Tax (PRRT)
PRRT currently applies to all petroleum projects in Australian offshore areas (or Commonwealth adjacent areas) other than production licences derived from the Joint Petroleum Development Area in the Timor Sea. It also currently applies to all Australian offshore oil and gas projects, other than the Joint Petroleum Development Area in the Timor Sea.
PRRT is applied to a 'project' or 'production licence area' at a rate of 40% of the taxable profits derived from the recovery of all petroleum in the project, including:
  * crude oil
  * shale oil
  * condensate
  * sales gas
  * natural gas
  * LPG, and
  * ethane.


The taxable profit of a project is calculated as follows:
Taxable profit = Assessable receipts - Deductible expenditure
Deductible expenditure broadly includes exploration expenditure, all project development, and operating expenditures.
PRRT is self-assessed by the relevant taxpayer. The taxpayer is, in most cases, required to give the Commissioner of Taxation a PRRT return for each PRRT year. PRRT is generally payable by quarterly instalments.
PRRT applies in addition to normal income tax. PRRT payments (including instalments) are, however, deductible for income tax purposes.
## Local municipal taxes
Local taxes, including water, sewerage, and drainage charges, are levied based on the unimproved capital value of land and include a charge for usage (e.g. water usage).


