# Ecuador
## Overview
Last reviewed - 06 September 2024
Ecuador is located on the Northwest Coast of South America, bordering the Pacific Ocean between Colombia and Peru.
Ecuador was a part of the northern Inca Empire until Spanish conquest in 1533. Quito, as it was called then, became a seat of Spanish colonial government in 1563 and part of the Viceroyalty of New Granada in 1717. The territories of the Viceroyalty (i.e. New Granada [Colombia], Venezuela, and Quito) gained their independence between 1819 and 1822 and formed a federation known as Gran Colombia. When Quito withdrew in 1830, the traditional name was changed to 'Republic of Ecuador'. In September 2008, voters approved a new constitution, which was Ecuador's 20th since gaining independence.
The Republic of Ecuador is divided into 24 provinces, with Quito as its capital. The official language of Ecuador is Spanish.
In March 2000, Congress approved a series of structural reforms that provided for the adoption of the United States dollar (USD) as legal currency. Dollarisation stabilised the economy, and positive growth occurred in the following years mainly because of high oil prices and increased non-traditional exports.
Ecuador is substantially dependent on its petroleum resources, which have accounted for more than half of the country's export earnings and one-fourth of the public sector revenues in recent years.
Ecuador has been experiencing fluctuating growth over the last few years. According to the Ecuadorian Central Bank, the economy reached a growth rate of -9.1% in 2020 (COVID-19 impact), 4.5% in 2021, 3.8% in 2022, and 2.4% in 2023. According to forecasts, the annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth for 2024 is estimated to be around 0.8% to 0.9%.
PwC has been present in Ecuador since 1969 and has over 320 professionals located in offices in Quito and Guayaquil. During these past 54 years, we have served the most prestigious local and foreign entities operating in Ecuador.
The PwC Industry Focus enhances our effectiveness. Clients benefit from access to professionals who have relevant industry knowledge and who can tailor solutions to specific needs. The industry programs cover the main economic sectors: Financial Services, Energy and Utilities, Retail and Consumer, Industrial Products and Services, Technology, Entertainment and Media, and Government Services.
As our main objective is to assist our clients in being successful, we welcome any questions you may have on our services in general or on the specific information described herein.
## Quick rates and dates
Compare
Corporate income tax (CIT) rates   
---  
Headline CIT rate (%) |  22%, 25%, or 28%, depending on the company's shareholders structure (corporate structure) and disclosure compliance.  
Corporate income tax (CIT) due dates   
---  
CIT return due date |  Between 9 April and 28 April.  
CIT final payment due date |  Between 9 April and 28 April.  
CIT estimated payment due dates |  NA (companies are allowed to make voluntary CIT prepayments)  
Personal income tax (PIT) rates   
---  
Headline PIT rate (%) |  37  
Personal income tax (PIT) due dates   
---  
PIT return due date |  Between 10 March and 28 March  
PIT final payment due date |  Between 10 March and 28 March  
PIT estimated payment due dates |  Monthly withholding for employment income. For other income, individuals can voluntarily make income tax prepayments.  
Value-added tax (VAT) rates   
---  
Standard VAT rate (%) |  15  
Withholding tax (WHT) rates   
---  
WHT rates (%) (Dividends/Interest/Royalties) |  Resident: 0 to 25 / 0 to 2 / 8; Non-resident: 0, 10, or 14.8 / 0 or 25 / 0, 25, or 37  
Capital gains tax (CGT) rates   
---  
Headline corporate capital gains tax rate (%) |  Capital gains generated by the transfer of equity rights (i.e. shares) are subject to a 10% income tax rate.  
Headline individual capital gains tax rate (%) |  Capital gains generated by the transfer of equity rights (i.e. shares) are subject to a 10% income tax rate.  
Net wealth/worth tax rates   
---  
Headline net wealth/worth tax rate (%) |  0.15  
Inheritance and gift tax rates   
---  
Headline inheritance tax rate (%) |  37  
Headline gift tax rate (%) |  37  
NA stands for Not Applicable (i.e. the territory does not have the indicated tax or requirement)
NP stands for Not Provided (i.e. the information is not currently provided in this chart) 
All information in this chart is up to date as of the 'Last reviewed' date on the corresponding territory Overview page. This chart has been prepared for general guidance on matters of interest only, and does not constitute professional advice. You should not act upon the information contained in this chart without obtaining specific professional advice. No representation or warranty (express or implied) is given as to the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in this chart, and, to the extent permitted by law, PwC does not accept or assume any liability, responsibility or duty of care for any consequences of you or anyone else acting, or refraining to act, in reliance on the information contained in this chart or for any decision based on it.
