# Greece
## Individual - Tax administration
Last reviewed - 05 September 2024
## Taxable period
No taxable years other than the calendar year are permitted.
## Tax returns
The filing of tax returns of natural persons is effected only electronically (via the Internet).
During the marriage or civil-partnership, spouses are required to file a joint tax return starting from the tax year in which the marriage or civil-partnership occurs, covering the income of that year. Onespouseisdesignatedtosubmit the jointtax return and isresponsible for reporting the income of bothparties. Taxes, fees, and contributionsarecalculatedseparately for eachspouse'sincome, witheachspouseindividuallyresponsible for theirrespectivepayments.»
However, the taxable income of one spouse from a business that is financially dependent on the other spouse is added to the taxable income of the other spouse. Taxable income of dependent children is added, with certain exceptions, to the parent who declares the higher total income. 
The income tax return may be submitted separately if at least one spouse opts to do so by filing a income tax return by February 28 of the submission year. This choice is binding for the other spouse, irrevocable for the first applicable year, and remains in effect for each subsequent tax year unless revoked by February 28 of the respective year. In the event of separate filings, the provisions related to taxable income of dependent children apply accordingly for the parent who reports the higher income.
For the purposes of the income tax return filing (single or joint), it is mandatory that the taxpayer(s) has obtained a Greek tax registration number. Non-Greek tax residents are required to file an annual income tax return only with the Greek tax office applicable for foreign residents. In this respect, they appoint against the Greek tax authorities, on a basis of a proxy document, a Greek tax resident as their representative. Legal entities are not allowed to be appointed as representatives.
The submission of the Greek income tax returns takes place from March 15 to July 15 for each tax year.
## Payment of tax
Income tax and special solidarity contribution are withheld from salaries and remitted to the tax office by the employer.
The WHT on salaries, wages, and pensions is calculated on the amount of monthly salary after being reduced by the employee’s share of social security contributions, multiplied by 14 (12 monthly salaries, plus one monthly salary for Christmas bonus, one-half monthly salary for Easter bonus, and one-half monthly salary for vacation bonus). This amount constitutes the employee’s annual net salary before income tax. The annual WHT is calculated on the basis of the personal income tax rates (_see the section_), taking into consideration the number of dependent children (_see the section_).
The employer must withhold 1/14 of this amount each month from the employee’s salary. The same amount of tax must be withheld from the Christmas bonus, while 1/2 (i.e. 1/28 of the annual tax) is the amount of tax that must be withheld from both the Easter and the vacation bonus. Overtime pay, bonuses, allowances, , as well as retroactive income, are subject to WHT at the rate of 20%. The final tax is computed with the year-end payroll clearance.
Annual income tax withholding on salaries, wages, and pensions is set off against the final income tax assessed on the basis of the individual income tax return. Any amounts withheld in excess of the annual income tax assessed are refunded.
If the taxpayer has income not subject to tax withholding at source (e.g. income from immovable property, freelance professions, or business/commercial activities), a tax prepayment of 55% on the current year’s income tax is assessed by the tax authorities and is paid together with the balance, if any, of the previous year. Only for the first year of tax return filing is such a tax advance payment reduced to 50%.
## Statute of limitations
_See Statute of limitations in the section in the Corporate tax summary_.
