# Sweden
## Corporate - Significant developments
Last reviewed - 27 December 2024
## Pillar Two implementation
The global minimum tax under the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE) rules and the European Union (EU) Directive 2022/2523 of 14 December 2022 has been implemented in Swedish law and entered into force on 1 January 2024. The Swedish rules include provisions covering the main elements of the rules that have been agreed by the Inclusive Framework. The Swedish rules contain a Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-Up Tax (QDMTT), an Income Inclusion Rule (IIR), and an Undertaxed Profits Rule (UTPR).
On December 4, 2024 the Swedish Parliament adopted the proposal from the government on supplementary provisions taking into account the Administrative Guidance published by OECD throughout 2023. This means that the Swedish QDMTT meets the conditions for benefiting from another country’s QDMTT safe harbour rules. Among other changes are modifications to the foreign tax credit act that enable offsetting foreign QDMTTs against taxes due under the Swedish controlled foreign company (CFC) rules. The amendments enter into force on 1 January 2025 and the legislative changes applies for the first time for tax years beginning immediately after 31 December 2024. However, the reporting entity may request that all or certain of the provisions be applied already for tax years beginning immediately after 31 December 2023, i.e. at the same time as the provisions already in force.
The Administrative Guidance adopted in June 2024 has not yet been implemented into Swedish law. However, such guidance still applies to the extent it is question of clarifications etc that do not require legislation. 
