# United States
## Corporate - Significant developments
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
President Joe Biden, who took office on 20 January 2021, has proposed significant changes to United States (US) tax law as part of his budget submission to the US Congress. President Biden has proposed to increase corporate and individual tax rates that were put into effect by the 2017 tax reform act (Public Law [P.L.] No. 115-97). In August 2022, Congress passed, and the President signed into law, the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 2022 (Public Law No. 117-169), which includes a 15% book minimum tax on corporations with financial accounting profits over 1 billion US dollars (USD) and a 1% excise tax on certain stock buybacks. The IRA also contains numerous clean energy tax incentives related to electricity production, carbon sequestration, alternative vehicles and fuels, and residential and commercial energy efficiency. The IRA does not contain certain other tax proposals, such as international tax provisions intended to address US implementation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) agreement on a Pillar Two per-country global minimum tax.
The US Congress in 2021 enacted an Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (P.L. 117-58). While not primarily a tax bill, P.L. 117-58 renewed existing federal fuel excise taxes and featured some new tax provisions, including new tax information reporting requirements related to digital assets and a reinstatement, with modifications, of 'Superfund' excise taxes on certain chemicals to finance US environmental clean-up programs.The 2017 tax reform legislation lowered business and individual tax rates, modernised US international tax rules, and provided the most significant overhaul of the US tax code in more than 30 years. P.L. 115-97 lowered permanently the US federal corporate income tax (CIT) rate from 35% to 21%. The new CIT rate is effective for tax years beginning after 31 December 2017. P.L. 115-97 also repealed the corporate alternative minimum tax (AMT).
P.L. 115-97 provided the most significant overhaul of US international tax rules in more than 50 years by moving the United States from a ‘worldwide’ system to a 100% dividend exemption ‘territorial’ system. As part of this change, P.L. 115-97 included two minimum taxes aimed at safeguarding the US tax base from erosion, along with other international tax provisions. P.L. 115-97 also included a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a new 20% deduction for certain pass-through business income. In addition, P.L. 115-97 repealed or modified many prior-law tax provisions to offset part of the cost of the tax reforms.
The Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) have issued extensive regulations under several key provisions of P.L. 115-97 and P.L. 117-169.
Various COVID pandemic relief measures were enacted in 2020 and 2021. Tax relief measures for businesses that were enacted as part of P.L. 116-136 include a five-year net operating loss (NOL) carryback (including a related technical correction to the 2017 tax reform act), a change in the Section 163(j) interest deduction limitations, accelerated AMT refunds, payroll tax relief, a temporary suspension of certain aviation excise taxes, a tax credit for employers who retain employees, and a ‘qualified improvement property’ technical correction to the 2017 tax reform act. Note that these provisions were temporary and have expired.


# United States
## Corporate - Tax administration
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
## Tax period
US corporate taxpayers are taxed on an annual basis. Corporate taxpayers may choose a tax year that is different from the calendar year. New corporations may use a short tax year for their first tax period, and corporations may also use a short tax year when changing tax years.
## Tax returns
The US tax system is based on the principle of self-assessment and voluntary reporting. A corporate taxpayer is required to file an annual tax return (generally Form 1120) by the 15th day of the fourth month following the close of its tax year. A taxpayer can obtain an additional six-month extension of time to file its tax return. Failure to timely file a return may result in penalties. Additional penalties may be applicable for a late return for certain information returns that are required to be filed with a timely return. 
### Important tax return due dates
Form No. | Title | Purpose | Due date  
---|---|---|---  
W-2 | Wage and Tax Statement | Employers must provide employees with statements regarding total compensation and amounts withheld during year. | Must be sent to employees on or before 31 January.  
1099 series | Various | Information returns to be provided to the IRS and recipients of dividends and distributions, interest income, miscellaneous income, etc. | Must be sent to the recipients on or before 31 January. Must be filed with the IRS on or before 31 January, 28 February, or 31 March, depending on the type of filing and whether the filing is electronic or on paper.  
1120 series, including 1120S (for S Corps) | US Corporation Income Tax Return | Income tax returns for domestic corporations or foreign corporations with US offices. | 15 April for C corporations, 15 March for S corporations (Form 7004 may be filed to obtain an automatic six-month extension).  
Schedule K-1 | Partner's Share of Income, Deductions, Credits, Etc. | Information returns to be provided to partners. | 15 March.  
1065 | US Return of Partnership Income | Information returns to be filed by partnerships. | 15 March (Form 7004 may be filed to obtain an automatic six-month extension).  
State tax returns | Various | Income tax returns for states where corporation carries on trade/business. | Varies, often 15 April.  
## Payment of tax
A taxpayer's tax liability generally is required to be prepaid throughout the year in four equal estimated payments and fully paid by the original due date of the tax return. However, because a corporation that expects its tax liability for the tax year to exceed the small sum of USD 500 is required to make estimated tax payments, almost all corporations are required to pay their full estimated tax liability for the year in four estimated tax payments. For calendar year corporations, the four estimated payments are due by the 15th day of April, June, September, and December. For fiscal year corporations, the four estimated payments are due by the 15th day of the fourth, sixth, ninth, and 12th month of the tax year. Generally, no extensions to pay are allowed. Failure to pay the tax by the due dates as indicated above can result in estimated tax and late payment penalties and interest charges.
The instalment payments must include estimates of regular CIT and, for foreign corporations, the tax on gross transportation income, although not all of these taxes are reported through the Form 1120. Although some of these other taxes are reported on tax forms other than the 1120 series, they may require similar estimated payments through regular deposits of taxes throughout the year.
To avoid a penalty, corporations must calculate the instalment payments based on at least 25% of the lesser of (i) the tax shown on the current tax return or (ii) the prior year's tax liability, provided that the tax liability was a positive amount in the prior year and that such year consisted of 12 months. However, corporations with taxable income of at least USD 1 million (before use of NOLs or capital loss carryforwards) in any of the three preceding years are not permitted to calculate the instalment payments based on the prior year's tax liability, except in determining the first instalment payment. Instead, such corporations must calculate the instalment payments based on the tax shown on the current tax return.
### Penalties
Civil and criminal penalties may be imposed for failing to follow the Code when reporting and paying US taxes. The civil penalty provisions may be divided into four categories: delinquency penalties; accuracy-related penalties; information reporting penalties; and preparer, promoter, and frivolous-filing penalties. Many, but not all, have exception provisions that allow for potential abatement based on reasonable cause. In addition, many have provisions directing how the penalties interact with the other penalties.
These four main civil penalty categories may further be divided. First, the delinquency penalties may be divided into failure to file, failure to pay, and failure to make timely deposits of tax. Failure to make timely deposits of tax applies to taxpayers required to make instalment payments and WHT payments.
Second, the penalties relating to the accuracy of tax returns are divided into the negligence penalty, the substantial understatement penalty, substantial overstatement of pension liabilities, substantial estate or gift tax valuation underestimate, and the valuation penalties. These penalties are coordinated, along with the fraud penalty, to eliminate any stacking of the penalties. Again, like other provisions, the fraud penalty is not intended to be imposed as a stacked penalty.
The third category of penalties is the information reporting penalties. These penalties may be imposed upon those who only have a duty to report certain information to the IRS. Although not a penalty, another result of failing to report certain information on international operations is a potential extended limitations period for assessment of tax for properly failing to report certain information.
The fourth and final major categories of civil penalties are the preparer, promoter, and frivolous-filing penalties. Currently, the most notable of these is the return preparer penalty for which there is a penalty for a position on a return for which the preparer did not have substantial authority and there was a failure to disclose the transaction on the return. Also included in this provision is a penalty for wilful or reckless attempt to understate the tax liability of another person. Additionally, return preparer penalties may be imposed for failure to furnish a copy of a return or claim for refund to the taxpayer, sign the return or claim for refund, furnish one’s identifying number, or file a correct information return.
Other promoter and frivolous-filing penalties include a penalty for promoting abusive tax shelters, aiding and abetting the understatement of tax liability, and filing frivolous income tax returns. Additionally, a court may award sanctions and costs if a person institutes or maintains a proceeding primarily for delay, takes a position that is frivolous, or unreasonably fails to pursue available administrative remedies.
In addition to these major civil penalties, international tax-related penalties for failures other than timely and accurate filing (e.g. wilful failure to report international boycott activity, failure of an agent to furnish a notice of a false affidavit relating to the WHT on dispositions of US real property interests, failure of a US person to furnish information relating to CFCs and controlled foreign partnerships, failure of a US person to report foreign bank accounts) exist. Pension and employee benefit related tax penalties exist to protect the policy reasons for the tax incentives, including, most notably, early withdrawal of pension funds. Another group of specialised penalties apply to exempt organisations.
Criminal penalties exist for situations when the failures to stay within the tax system are more egregious and the actions are wilful. Although applicable to corporate taxpayers, they are applied more frequently to individuals.
In addition to the penalty provisions, interest at statutory rates generally applies to underpayments of tax and, in general, interest cannot be abated.
## Tax audit process
Generally, the US tax system is based on a voluntary self-assessment of tax; however, many large and mid-size businesses are under annual audit by the IRS and state tax authorities. The audits may include the review of the entire list of taxes for which the business is liable. Smaller businesses and persons with lower incomes are generally subject to audit on a more selective, and random, basis and to more limited examinations focused on only some of the issues on the return.
## Statute of limitations
The IRS generally has three years after an original return is filed to assess income taxes. A return will be deemed to have been filed on its original due date even if the return is actually filed on an earlier date. If a return is filed on extension, the limitations period runs from the date of filing the return and not from the extended due date.
## Topics of focus for tax authorities
Currently, the IRS continues to focus on certain activities related to Form 1120-F filing requirements, foreign tax credit issues under section 901, foreign earnings repatriation, allocation of success-based fees outside of safe harbour procedures, research credit claims, transfer of intangibles/offshore cost sharing, WHTs, section 956 inclusion issues, self-employment tax issues affecting partnerships, and certain sales of partnership interests and S corporation distributions. The IRS also continues to focus enforcement efforts on the review of Section 965 (the transition tax provision added by P.L. 115-97) issues, as well as other new provisions added by P.L. 115-97 discussed above. Additionally, the IRS has significantly increased its examinations of partnerships pursuant to the new provisions in the Bi-Partisan Budget Act (BBA) of 2015, which introduced a new centralised partnership audit regime. 
## Tax shelter
Treasury regulations require taxpayers to disclose transactions determined to be abusive or when the transaction is substantially similar to an abusive transaction. Current information on these transactions, known as listed and reportable transactions, is available from the IRS website ().
## Methods of accounting
For US federal tax purposes, the two most important characteristics of a tax method of accounting are (i) timing and (ii) consistency. If the method does not affect the timing for including items of income or claiming deductions, then it is not an accounting method and generally IRS approval is not needed to change it. In order to affect timing, the accounting method must determine the year in which an income or expense item is to be reported.
In general, to establish an accounting method, the method must be consistently applied. Once an accounting method has been adopted for federal tax purposes, any change must be requested by the taxpayer and approved by the IRS. Changes in accounting methods generally cannot be made through amending returns. The two primary overall methods of accounting are the accrual and the cash receipts and disbursements methods.


# United States
## Corporate - Corporate residence
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
A corporation organised or created in the United States under the law of the United States or of any state is a domestic corporation. A domestic corporation is a resident corporation even though it does no business or owns no property in the United States.
## Permanent establishment (PE)
A PE generally is defined as a fixed place of business.


# United States
## Corporate - Deductions
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
## Depreciation and amortisation
Depreciation deductions are allowances that may be taken for capital outlays for tangible property. For property placed in service after 1986, capital costs must be recovered by using the modified accelerated cost recovery system (MACRS) method. Depending on the type of tangible property, the general cost recovery periods are three, five, seven, ten, 15, 20, 27.5, and 39 years (31.5 years for property placed in service before 13 May 1993). The cost recovery methods and periods are the same for both new and used property. Most tangible personal property is in the three-, five-, or seven-year class. Property placed in the three-, five-, seven-, or ten-year class is depreciated by first applying the 200% declining-balance method and then switching to the straight-line method at such a time as when use of the straight-line method maximises the depreciation deduction. Property in the 15- or 20-year class is depreciated by using the 150% declining-balance method and later switching to the straight-line method. An election may be made to use the alternative depreciation system (basically, the straight-line method over prescribed lives). Residential rental property generally is depreciated by the straight-line method over 27.5 years. Non-residential real property is depreciated by the straight-line method over 39 years (31.5 years for property placed in service before 13 May 1993).
An election to use the straight-line method over the regular recovery period or a longer recovery period also is available. Alternatively, taxpayers may elect to use the 150% declining-balance method over the regular recovery period for all property other than real property. 
Special rules apply to automobiles and certain other 'listed' property. Accelerated depreciation deductions can be claimed only if the automobile is used 50% or more for qualified business use as defined in related regulations. For automobiles placed in service after 1986, the allowable yearly depreciation deduction cannot exceed specific dollar limitations.
Separate methods and periods of cost recovery are specified by statute for certain tangible personal and real property used outside the United States.
Rapid amortisation may be allowable for certain pollution control facilities.
Tax depreciation generally does not conform to book depreciation. Tax depreciation generally is subject to recapture on the sale or disposition of certain property, to the extent of gain, which is subject to tax as ordinary income.
The cost of most intangible assets is capitalised and amortisable rateably over 15 years.
### Section 179 deduction
Corporations may elect to expense, up to a statutory amount per year, the cost of certain eligible property used in the active conduct of a trade or business. This is commonly referred to as the Section 179 deduction.
Varying amounts and thresholds apply to tax years beginning before 1 January 2018.
For property placed in service in tax years beginning after 31 December 2017, the dollar limitation is USD 1 million and the cost of property subject to the phase-out is USD 2.5 million. These dollar limitations are indexed for inflation for tax years beginning after 31 December 2018.
This deduction is limited to the taxable income of the business.
### Bonus depreciation
A 100% special first-year depreciation allowance (i.e. bonus depreciation) applies (unless an election out is made) for property for which the original use begins with the taxpayer (or, under certain circumstances, if the use is new to the taxpayer), MACRS property with a recovery period of 20 years or less, certain computer software, water utility property, and certain leasehold improvements. The special allowance does not apply to property that must be depreciated using the alternative depreciation system or to 'listed property' not used predominantly for business. The special allowance reduces basis before regular depreciation is figured. Additionally, claiming bonus depreciation on automobiles may affect the first-year depreciation limits on such automobiles.
Thus, for certain new and used property acquired and placed in service before 1 January 2023 (with an additional year for certain aircraft and longer production period property), taxpayers may expense immediately the entire cost of such property. For qualified property placed in service in calendar years 2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026 (2024, 2025, 2026, and 2027 for certain aircraft and longer production period property), 100% is reduced to 80%, 60%, 40%, and 20%, respectively. For any property acquired prior to 28 September 2017, the previous bonus depreciation rules apply. 
## Depletion
For natural resource properties other than timber and certain oil and gas properties, depletion may be computed on a cost or a percentage basis.
Cost depletion is a method of depletion applied to exhaustible natural resources, including timber, which is based on the adjusted basis of the property. Each year, the adjusted basis of the property is reduced, but not below zero, by the amount of depletion calculated for that year. The current year cost depletion deduction is based on an estimate of the number of units that make up the deposit and the number of units extracted and sold during the year.
Percentage depletion is a method of depletion applied to most minerals and geothermal deposits, and, to a more limited extent, oil and gas. Percentage depletion is deductible at rates varying from 5% to 25% of gross income, depending on the mineral and certain other conditions. Percentage depletion may be deducted even after the total depletion deductions have exceeded the cost basis. However, percentage depletion is limited to 50% (100% for oil and gas properties) of taxable income from the property (computed without allowance for depletion). Generally, percentage depletion is not available for oil or gas wells. However, exceptions exist for natural gas from geopressurised brine and for independent producers of oil and gas.
## Goodwill
The cost of goodwill acquired in connection with the acquisition of assets that constitute a trade or business generally is capitalised and amortised rateably over 15 years, beginning in the month the goodwill is acquired.
## Start-up expenses
Generally, start-up expenditures must be amortised over a 15-year period; however, certain taxpayers may elect to deduct a certain amount of start-up expenditures in the tax year the trade or business begins.
## Interest expense limitation
Prior-law Section 163(j) was replaced by new Section 163(j) at the end of 2017 with the enactment of P.L. 115-97 (hereafter referred to as current-law Section 163(j) or Section 163(j)). Effective for tax years beginning after 31 December 2017, Section 163(j) generally limits US business interest expense deductions to the sum of business interest income, 30% of ‘adjusted taxable income’ (ATI), and floor plan financing interest of the taxpayer for the tax year.
The current-law Section 163(j) interest limitation broadly applies to the ‘business interest’ of any taxpayer (regardless of form) and regardless of whether the taxpayer is part of an ‘inbound’ group or an ‘outbound’ group. That is, unlike prior-law Section 163(j), current-law Section 163(j) applies regardless of whether the interest payment is made to a foreign person or a US person, and regardless of whether the person is related or unrelated to the taxpayer. ATI is roughly equivalent to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation (EBITDA) for tax years that began before 1 January 2022. For tax years beginning on or after that date, ATI is roughly equivalent to earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT).
Disallowed business interest expense can be carried forward indefinitely.
The Section 163(j) rules enacted as part of P.L. 115-97 were temporarily modified by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) (P.L. 116-136). P.L. 116-136 amended Section 163(j) for tax years that began in 2019 and 2020 by generally increasing the percentage of a taxpayer’s ATI from 30% to 50% for the purpose of calculating the limitation under Section 163(j).
A taxpayer that is not a partnership (see below regarding partnerships) was permitted to elect for 2019 or 2020 to not increase its ATI percentage from 30% to 50%. Once made, such an election is revocable only with the consent of the IRS.
In the case of a partnership, the change in ATI percentage did not apply to the 2019 tax year. Instead, 50% of any excess business interest expense (EBIE) that the partnership allocated to each partner in 2019 is treated as paid or accrued by the partner in 2020 and not subject to Section 163(j). The remaining 50% of each partner’s 2019 EBIE remains subject to the normal rules of Section 163(j). Each partner was able to elect out of the special rule for 2019. For 2020, the change in ATI percentage applies to partnerships unless the partnership (not the partners) elects out of the rule.
In addition, for tax years that began in 2020, a taxpayer (including a partnership) generally was able to elect to substitute its ATI from 2019 for its 2020 ATI in performing the calculation. There are special rules regarding this election for short tax years.
## Bad debt
Bad debt resulting from a trade or business may be deducted in the year the debt becomes worthless. Determining the date the debt becomes worthless may present difficulty.
Taxpayers also may claim a deduction for partially worthless bad debt to the extent they are charged off of the taxpayer’s books.
## Charitable contributions
Deductions for allowable charitable contributions may not exceed 10% of taxable income computed without regard to certain deductions, including charitable contributions themselves. Deductions for contributions so limited may be carried over to the five succeeding years, subject to the 10% limitation annually. Carryovers of qualified conservation contributions may be carried over for 15 years.
An additional deduction may be available to corporations that donate inventory to be used by the donee solely for the care of the ill, the needy, or infants.
## Employee benefit plans (pension plans and expenses)
Through the Code, the government provides incentives for employers to provide qualified retirement benefits to workers. Usually, the employer will be allowed a current deduction for contributions made to a trust, and the employee's tax liability will be deferred until the benefit is paid. For-profit, non-government employers generally have two types of available plans, which generally are subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements set forth under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). Qualified plans are required to provide benefits for a broad group of employees (and not only executives) and there are annual limits on the amount of benefits that can be earned by the participants.
The first category of tax-qualified retirement plans is a defined benefit plan, or more commonly known as a pension plan, to which an employer contributes money, on an ongoing basis, to cover the amount of retirement income owed to retired employees under the plan (which will vary based on years of service, average salary, age at retirement, and other factors). Any investment gains or losses will not affect the amount of benefits paid to participants but will affect the amount an employer needs to contribute in order to cover its obligation.
The second category of employee benefit plans is the defined contribution plan, or more commonly known in the United States as a '401(k) plan', to which an employee can contribute compensation (up to an annual limit) on a pre-tax basis to an account in the employee’s name. Employers also can contribute amounts to these accounts, such as matching contributions or profit sharing contributions. Investment gains or losses and the history of contributions will affect the value of a participant's account at retirement but will not affect an employer's contributions since the employer is not obligated to ensure any specified level of benefit in the plan. Small employers have similar options available but may be subject to different requirements.
Non-profits, including churches and government entities, have similar employee benefit plans, except different requirements apply. Self-employed individuals also may set up retirement plans, but these are subject to separate requirements.
## Foreign-derived intangible income (FDII)
For tax years beginning after 2017 and before 1 January 2026, Section 250 allows as a deduction an amount equal to 37.5% of a domestic corporation’s FDII plus 50% of the GILTI amount included in gross income of the domestic corporation under new Section 951A (_discussed in the section_). For tax years beginning after 31 December 2025, the deduction is reduced to 21.875% and 37.5%, respectively. If, in any tax year, the domestic corporation’s taxable income is less than the sum of its FDII and GILTI amounts, then the 37.5% FDII deduction and the 50% GILTI deduction are reduced proportionally by the amount of the difference. 
FDII is determined by subtracting a deemed 10% return on the domestic corporation’s tangible assets from its deduction-eligible income (DEI), which comprises its total net income (apart from certain specified categories, such as Subpart F and GILTI inclusion income, foreign branch income, and CFC dividends). This net amount is then multiplied by a fraction, the denominator of which is the corporation’s DEI and the numerator of which is its net income from sales of property to foreign persons for foreign use or from services provided to persons, or with respect to property, located outside the United States. Thus, despite its name, FDII is not limited to sales or licenses of intangible property, or services provided using intangible property.
## Research and experimental (R&E) expenditures
For tax years beginning before 1 January 2022, corporations can continue to elect under Section 174 to expense all R&E expenditures that are paid or incurred during the tax year or to defer the expenses for 60 months. Taxpayers also can make a special election under Section 59(e) to amortise their research expenditures over 120 months. A portion of the research expenditures may qualify for a research tax credit, _which is described in the section_.
For tax years beginning after 2021, P.L. 115-97 repealed expensing of R&E expenditures, including software development costs, under Section 174 and required such expenditures to be capitalised and amortised over a five-year period, beginning with the midpoint of the tax year in which the specified R&E expenditures were paid or incurred. R&E expenditures that are attributable to research that is conducted outside the United States will have to be capitalised and amortised over a period of 15 years.
## Bribes, kickbacks, and illegal payments
An amount paid, directly or indirectly, to any person that is a bribe, kickback, or other illegal payment is not deductible.
## Fines and penalties
No deduction generally is allowed for fines or penalties paid to the government for violation of any law for amounts paid or incurred before 22 December 2017.
For amounts paid on or after 22 December 2017, all payments to, or at the direction of, a government or governmental entity in relation to the violation of any law or the investigation or inquiry by a government or entity into the potential violation of any law are non-deductible, unless the payments are for restitution, remediation, or to come into compliance with the law and are identified as such in the underlying agreement.
## Taxes
State and municipal taxes imposed on businesses are deductible expenses for federal income tax purposes.
## Other significant items
  * No deduction generally is allowed to an accrual-method taxpayer for a contingent liability. A liability must be fixed and the amount must be reasonably determinable, and economic performance must have occurred.
  * Costs incurred for entertainment before 2018 must meet strict tests to be deductible and generally are limited to 50% of the expenses paid or incurred. For amounts paid or incurred after 31 December 2017, entertainment expenses are 100% disallowed unless an exception applies. Expenses for meals, including meals associated with entertainment (if separately invoiced), are 50% deductible unless an exception applies. The cost of providing food and beverages that qualify as a de minimis fringe benefit is no longer an exception to the 50% disallowance after 2018. For 2021 and 2022, expenses for food and beverages provided by a restaurant are 100% deductible (if otherwise qualified as a business expense). After 2022, the 2018 deduction rules apply again. The deductibility of international and domestic business travel expenses is subject to a number of limitations and disallowances.
  * Royalty payments, circulation costs, mine exploration and development costs, and other miscellaneous costs of carrying on a business are deductible, subject to certain conditions and limitations.
  * Compensation paid by a publicly traded corporation to its CEO, CFO, and three additional SEC executive officers is generally subject to a USD 1 million per-year deduction limit. P.L. 115-97 eliminated the prior-law exception for performance-based compensation and extended the deduction limit to all compensation payments, including payments after termination of employment. Because the deduction limitation applies to payments after separation, there may be more than five employees that are subject to the limitation in a given tax year. The limitation now also applies to certain privately held corporations that have public debt and foreign corporations that trade on US exchanges through American Depository Receipts (ADRs). Effective for tax years beginning after 31 December 2026, the highest paid five employees will be subject to the USD 1 million deduction limit.


## Net operating losses (NOLs)
An NOL is generated when business deductions exceed gross income in a particular tax year. NOLs generated in tax years ending before 1 January 2018 may be carried back to offset past income and possibly obtain a refund or carried forward to offset future income. Generally, a loss generated in tax years ending before 1 January 2018 may be carried back two years and, if not fully used, carried forward 20 years.
Special rules regarding NOLs generated in tax years ending before 1 January 2018 may apply (i) to specified liability losses or (ii) if a taxpayer is located in a qualified disaster area.
NOLs generated in tax years ending after 31 December 2017 generally may not be carried back and must instead be carried forward indefinitely. However, the deduction for these NOLs is limited to 80% of taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction). 
Complex rules may limit the use of NOLs after a re-organisation or other change in corporate ownership. Generally, if the ownership of more than 50% in value of the stock of a loss corporation changes, a limit is placed on the amount of future income that may be offset by losses carried forward.
An NOL limitation applicable to pass-through businesses and sole proprietors is modified to permit utilisation of excess business losses for tax years beginning before 1 January 2021.
## Payments to foreign affiliates
Subject to certain limitations, a US corporation generally may claim a deduction for royalties, management service fees, interest charges, and other items paid to foreign affiliates, to the extent the amounts are actually paid and are not in excess of what it would pay an unrelated entity (i.e. they are at arm's length). US tax, collected through withholding, on these payments generally is required. Under certain circumstances, however, such payments may give rise to a BEAT liability for the US payer (_as discussed in the section_).


# United States
## Corporate - Group taxation
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
An affiliated group of US 'includible' corporations, consisting of a parent and subsidiaries directly or indirectly 80% owned, generally may offset the profits of one affiliate against the losses of another affiliate within the group by electing to file a consolidated federal income tax return. A foreign incorporated subsidiary may not be consolidated into the US group, except for (i) certain Mexican and Canadian incorporated entities, (ii) certain foreign insurance companies that elect to be treated as domestic corporations, and (iii) certain foreign corporations that are considered ‘expatriated’ under the so-called ‘anti-inversion’ rules and are thus deemed to be domestic for income tax purposes. A partnership may not be included in a consolidated return, even if it is 100% owned by members of an affiliated group, since a partnership is not a corporation. However, a member's earnings that flow through from a partnership are included as part of the consolidated group's taxable income or loss. Filing on a consolidated (combined) basis is also allowed (or may be required or prohibited) in certain states.
Sales, distributions, and other transactions between corporations that are members of the same group generally are deferred until such time as a transaction occurs with a non-member of the group. Losses incurred on the sale of stock of group members are disallowed under certain circumstances.
## Transfer pricing
Transfer pricing regulations govern how related entities set internal prices for the transfers of goods, intangible assets, services, and loans in both domestic and international contexts. The regulations are designed to prevent tax avoidance among related entities and place a controlled party on par with an uncontrolled taxpayer by requiring an arm's-length standard. The arm's-length standard generally is met if the results of a controlled transaction are consistent with results that would have been realised if uncontrolled taxpayers had engaged in a similar transaction under similar circumstances. If a company is not in compliance with the arm's-length standard, the IRS may raise taxable income and tax payable in the United States. After a transfer pricing adjustment, a multinational company may face double tax, paying tax twice on the same income in two countries. Multinational companies may request competent authority relief from double taxation through a tax treaty.
In order to avoid potential transfer pricing penalties, one avenue available to companies may be to obtain an advance pricing agreement (APA) with the IRS, unilaterally, or with the IRS and another tax authority, bilaterally, covering inter-company pricing.
## Country-by-country (CbC) reporting
US multinational enterprises (MNEs) have to report certain financial information on a CbC basis. The CbC report will be exchanged under bilateral Competent Authority Arrangements (CAAs) negotiated between the US Competent Authority and foreign tax administrations.
Under final regulations issued by the IRS, parent entities of US MNE groups with USD 850 million or more of revenue in a previous annual reporting period file IRS Form 8975, Country-by-Country Report. Form 8975 is used to report a US MNE group’s income, taxes paid, and other indicators of economic activity on a CbC basis.
Form 8975 must be filed with the income tax return of the parent entity in which the reporting period ends and cannot be filed as a stand-alone return. Form 8975 and its schedules can be filed in the Modernized e-File (MeF) XML schema format. Parent entities not permitted to file returns electronically must file Form 8975 with their paper income tax return.
The IRS will exchange Form 8975 information automatically with tax authorities with which the United States enters into a bilateral CAA. However, a US MNE group’s information will be exchanged only with countries in which the US MNE group reports doing business. Exchanged information is confidential and protected pursuant to the applicable legal instrument permitting exchange.
## Thin capitalisation
_See Interest expenses in the section_.
## Controlled foreign companies (CFCs)
Under the Subpart F regime of the IRC, a CFC is any foreign corporation with respect to which US shareholders (_defined below_) own more than 50% of either the voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote or the total value of all classes of the corporation’s stock on any day during the foreign corporation’s tax year. For these purposes, a US shareholder is any US person owning (directly, indirectly through foreign intermediaries, or constructively) 10% or more of the total value of shares of all classes of stock or of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of a foreign corporation.


# United States
## Corporate - Branch income
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
US tax law imposes a 30% branch profits tax on a foreign corporation's US branch earnings and profits for the year that are effectively connected with a US business, to the extent that they are not reinvested in branch assets. Thus, the taxable base for the branch profits tax is increased (decreased) by any decrease (increase) in the US net equity of the branch. The branch profits tax on profits may be reduced or eliminated entirely if a relevant treaty so provides (subject to strict 'treaty shopping' rules). The purpose of the branch profits tax is to treat US operations of foreign corporations in much the same manner as US corporations owned by foreign persons. With certain exceptions, a 30% (or lower treaty rate) branch profits tax also will be imposed on interest payments by the US branch to foreign lenders. In addition, the tax will apply if the amount of interest deducted by the branch on its US tax return exceeds the amount of interest actually paid during the year.


# United States
## Corporate - Tax credits and incentives
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
## Foreign tax credit (FTC)
Generally, in any year, a taxpayer can choose whether to take as a credit (subject to limitation) or as a deduction foreign income, war profits, and excess profit taxes paid or accrued during the tax year to any foreign country or US possession. An FTC reduces US income tax liability dollar for dollar, while a deduction reduces the US income tax liability at the marginal rate of the taxpayer. For taxpayers with NOLs, the FTC is of no value in such year. However, a benefit might be received either in an earlier year (through a refund of previously paid taxes) or a later year (through a reduction of future taxes). It also should be noted that a taxpayer has an ability to switch from deduction to credit at any time in a ten-year period commencing when the foreign taxes were paid or accrued. Generally, an FTC may be carried back one year and, if not fully used, carried forward ten years.
In addition, the FTC goes beyond direct taxes to include foreign taxes paid 'in lieu of' a tax upon income, war profits, or excess profits, which would otherwise generally be imposed. It also includes deemed-paid (indirect) taxes paid for certain US corporate shareholders of non-portfolio foreign corporations. FTCs (and foreign tax deductions) are disallowed for foreign taxes paid on amounts that are eligible for the new 100% DRD. Furthermore, the FTC system has numerous other limitations to mitigate the potential abuses of the credit by the taxpayer.
## General business credit
Various business credits are available to provide special incentives for the achievement of certain economic objectives. In general, these credits are combined into one 'general business credit' for purposes of determining each credit's allowance limitation for the tax year. The general business credit that may be used for a tax year is limited to a tax-based amount. In general, the current year's credit that cannot be used in a given year because of the credit's allowance limitation may be carried back to the tax year preceding the current year and carried forward to each of the 20 years following the current year.
In general, the current year business credit is a combination of the following credits for 2020:
  * Investment credit.
  * Work opportunity credit.
  * Alcohol fuels credit.
  * Research credit.
  * Low-income housing credit.
  * Disabled access credit for certain eligible small businesses.
  * Renewable electricity production credit.
  * Indian employment credit.
  * Employer social security credit.
  * Orphan drug credit.
  * New markets tax credit.
  * Small employer pension plan start-up cost credit for eligible employers.
  * Employer-provided child care credit.
  * Railroad track maintenance credit.
  * Biodiesel fuels credit.
  * Low sulphur diesel fuel production credit.
  * Distilled spirits credit.
  * Non-conventional source fuel production credit.
  * New energy efficient home credit.
  * Energy efficient appliance credit.
  * A portion of the alternative motor vehicle credit.
  * A portion of the alternative fuel vehicle refuelling property credit.
  * Mine rescue team training credit.
  * Agricultural chemicals security credit.
  * Employer differential wage payments credit.
  * Carbon oxide sequestration credit.
  * A portion of the new qualified plug-in electric drive motor vehicle credit for vehicles that will vary based on the date of purchase.


The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA), enacted 16 August 2022, added the following new business credits, with various effective dates, that are part of the general business credit:
  * Zero emission nuclear power plant credit.
  * Sustainable aviation fuel credit.
  * Clean hydrogen production credit.
  * Qualified commercial clean vehicle credit.
  * Advanced manufacturing production credit.
  * Clean electricity production credit.
  * Clean fuel production credit.


The investment credit, which is a component of the general business credit, in turn encompasses several business credits for investment in infrastructure, such as manufacturing facilities. Credits that are part of the investment credit may be subject to recapture when there is a disposition of the property. The investment credit includes:
  * Rehabilitation credit.
  * Energy credit.
  * Qualifying advanced coal project credit.
  * Qualifying gasification project credit.
  * Qualifying advanced energy project credit.
  * Qualifying therapeutic discovery project credit (due to sunset after 2022).
  * Advanced manufacturing investment credit (added by the CHIPS Act, enacted 9 August 2022).
  * Clean energy investment credit (added by the IRA).


The IRA and CHIPS Act provide an election for taxpayers to receive certain credits as a direct payment of tax, allowing taxpayers with low or no taxable income and tax-exempt entities to receive the benefit of those credits. The IRA also allows taxpayers to transfer certain credits to another taxpayer.
## Employment credits
A Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) is available through 2025 for qualified wages paid to certain types of workers. 'Qualified' wages generally are the first USD 6,000 of wages paid to each qualified employee for the year. The credit is a general business credit equal to 25% of qualified first-year wages for employees employed at least 120 hours but fewer than 400 hours, and 40% of qualified wages for those employed 400 hours or more, for a maximum credit of USD 2,400 per qualified employee. There are exceptions providing for increased wage eligibility and credit percentages relative to those cited above for certain specific target demographics.
Qualified tax-exempt organisations may claim the WOTC as a credit against payroll taxes for hiring qualified veterans.
## Research credit and orphan drug credit
The Credit for Increasing Research Activities under Section 41 (R&D credit) is available for companies that incur qualified research expenditures (QREs) to develop new or improved products, manufacturing processes, or software in the United States. The R&D credit was enacted in 1981 on a temporary basis to help increase R&D spending in the United States. Since then, the R&D credit has been extended on a temporary basis about 16 times, but was extended, retroactively to 1 January 2015, on a permanent basis as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016.
The R&D credit generally is computed by calculating current-year QREs over a base. The base is calculated using either the regular research credit (RRC) method or the alternative simplified credit (ASC) method. Under the RRC method, the credit equals 20% of QREs for the tax year over a base amount established by the taxpayer in 1984 to 1988 or by another method for companies that began operations after that period.
The ASC equals 14% (for the 2009 tax year and thereafter) of QREs over 50% of the average annual QREs in the three immediately preceding tax years. If the taxpayer has no QREs in any of the three preceding tax years, the ASC may be 6% of the tax year’s QREs. The taxpayer must make a timely ASC election on Form 6765 attached to an originally filed return filed by the due date for that return (including extensions), or, pursuant to final regulations published in February 2015, an amended return (subject to certain limitations).
Taxpayers may take a 20% credit for incremental payments made to qualified organisations for basic research. For tax years ending after 8 August 2005, taxpayers also may take the Energy Research Consortium Credit, which provides a 20% credit for expenditures on qualified energy research undertaken by an energy research consortium.
For tax years beginning before 1 January 2022, the deduction for R&D expenditures under Section 174 must be reduced by the entire amount of the R&D credit unless an election is made on Form 6765 to reduce the amount of the credit. For tax years beginning after 2021, P.L. 115-97 repealed expensing of R&E expenditures, including software development costs, under Section 174 and required such expenditures to be capitalised and amortised over a five-year period, beginning with the midpoint of the tax year in which the specified R&E expenditures were paid or incurred. R&E expenditures that are attributable to research that is conducted outside the United States will have to be capitalised and amortised over a period of 15 years.
The orphan drug credit (ODC), found in Section 45C, provides a credit for qualified clinical trial expenses (QCTEs) relating to so-called 'orphan drugs' (i.e. certain drugs intended to treat rare diseases or conditions that are designated as such by the FDA). For tax years beginning prior to 1 January 2018, the ODC equals 50% of QCTEs for the tax year. For years beginning on or after 1 January 2018, the ODC rate is reduced to 25% of such amounts and taxpayers may consider a reduced credit election. Similar to the research credit, the deduction for ODC expenditures under Section 174 must be reduced by the entire amount of the ODC credit unless an election is made on Form 8820 to reduce the amount of the credit.
For ODC purposes, QCTEs, as defined in Section 45C(b)(1)(A), are amounts paid or incurred by the taxpayer that would be described as QREs under Section 41(b), with two modifications. First, ‘clinical testing’ is substituted for ‘qualified research’ in Sections 41(b)(2) and (3). Second, 100% (as opposed to 65% or 75%) of contract research expenses is treated as clinical testing expenses. 
For more information about the ODC, please see the pertinent PwC Tax Insight from Pharmaceutical and Life Sciences and Research & Development at.
## Inbound investment incentives
There generally are limited incentives related to inbound investment at the federal level, such as certain portfolio debt, short-term debt, and bank deposit exceptions and trading safe harbours. The portfolio debt exception enables non-residents and foreign corporations to invest in certain obligations (which must meet certain statutory and regulatory requirements to qualify as 'portfolio debt') in the United States without being subject to US income (or withholding) tax on the interest income. The short-term debt exception (also referred to as the commercial paper exception) provides that non-residents and foreign corporations are not subject to US income (or withholding) tax on income from obligations with a term of 183 days or less. The bank deposit exception allows non-US investors to deposit funds in US banking institutions without being subject to US tax on the interest earned, provided that the investment meets the statutory definition of a ‘deposit’ and the funds are held by persons carrying on a banking business, or certain other supervised institutions. There also are statutory securities and commodities trading safe harbours that provide exceptions from being treated as engaged in a US trade or business for non-US persons trading in stocks, securities, or commodities through a resident broker, commission agent, custodian, or other independent agent. Certain state and local benefits may also be available.
## Qualified private activity bonds
Interest income received on certain qualified private activity bonds generally is exempt from federal income tax. This enables a state or local government to issue the bonds at a lower interest rate and to reloan the proceeds of the bonds to a business enterprise in a conduit arrangement that allows the business enterprise to benefit from the lower interest rate.
## Other credits and incentives
The federal, state, and local governments provide numerous incentives to encourage business investment and, thus, employment in their jurisdictions. Credits and incentives can assist in the reduction of costs and may provide cash to help offset costs related to investments, job creation, expansion, and the opening of new facilities. Some of the most common credits and incentives include cash grants, property and sales/use tax abatement, utility rate reductions, and other tax benefits, such as credits and tax holidays. 


# United States
## Corporate - Withholding taxes
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
Under US domestic tax laws, a foreign person generally is subject to 30% US tax on the gross amount of certain US-source income. All persons ('withholding agents') making US-source fixed, determinable, annual, or periodical (FDAP) payments to foreign persons generally must report and withhold 30% of the gross US-source FDAP payments, such as dividends, interest, royalties, etc. Withholding agents are permitted to withhold at a lower rate if the beneficial owner properly certifies their eligibility for a lower rate either based on operation of the US tax code or based on a tax treaty. Information reporting of the US-source payments is always required even if no withholding applies.
Withholding also may be required on the purchase from a non-US person of an interest in US real estate (which may, for this purpose, include shares in a US company holding primarily US real estate/real property interests) or a partnership interest if the partnership is or has been engaged in the conduct of a US trade or business.
The United States has entered into various bilateral income tax treaties in order to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion. The table below summarises certain benefits provided under these treaties. Note that the information in this table is subject to change as treaties are updated periodically (e.g. through protocol or renegotiation).
Recipient | WHT (%) a, b  
---|---  
Dividends paid by US corporations in general (1) | Dividends qualifying for direct dividend rate (1, 2) | Interest paid by US obligors in general | Royalties c  
Non-treaty | 30 | 30 | 30 | 30/30/30/30/30  
Treaty rates:  
Australia  | 15 (18) | 5 (18) | 10 (4, 5, 13, 17) | NA/5/5/5/5  
Austria  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/10/0  
Bangladesh  | 15 (18) | 10 (18) | 10 (5, 10, 13) | NA/10/10/10/10  
Barbados  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 5 | NA/5/5/5/5  
Belgium  | 15 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 20, 22) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Bulgaria  | 10 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 22) | 5 (5, 13, 17, 24) | NA/5/5/5/5  
Canada  | 15 (18) | 5 (18) | 0 (5, 13) | 10/0/0/10/0  
China, People's Republic of  | 10 | 10 | 10 | 7/10/10/10/10  
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) (7)  | 30 | 30 | 0 (6) | 0/0/0/0/0  
Cyprus  | 15 | 5 | 10 (17) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Czech Republic  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 0 (13) | 10/10/10/0/0  
Denmark  | 15 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 20, 22) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Egypt | 15 (3) | 5 (3) | 15 (3) | NA/30/15/NA/15  
Estonia  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 10 (5, 13) | 5/10/10/10/10  
Finland  | 15 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 20, 22) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/0/0  
France  | 15 (18) | 5 (18, 20) | 0 (4, 5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Germany  | 15 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 20, 22) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Greece  | 30 | 30 | 0 | 0/0/0/30/0  
Hungary (25) | 15 | 5 | 0 | NA/0/0/0/0  
Iceland  | 15 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 22, 24) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/5/0/5/0  
India  | 25 (8) | 15 (8) | 15 (11) | 10/15/15/15/15  
Indonesia  | 15 | 10 | 10 | 10/10/10/10/10  
Ireland  | 15 (18) | 5 (18, 24) | 0 (5, 13) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Israel  | 25 (8) | 12.5 (8) | 17.5 (11, 15) | NA/15/15/10/10  
Italy  | 15 (18) | 5 (18) | 10 (13, 19) | 5/8/8/8/0  
Jamaica  | 15 | 10 | 12.5 | NA/10/10/10/10  
Japan  | 10 (18, 21, 22) | 5 (18, 20, 21, 22) | 0 (5, 13, 21) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Kazakhstan  | 15 (14) | 5 (14) | 10 (13) | 10/10/10/10/10  
Korea, South  | 15 | 10 | 12 | NA/15/15/10/10  
Latvia  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 10 (5, 13) | 5/10/10/10/10  
Lithuania  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 10 (5, 13) | 5/10/10/10/10  
Luxembourg  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 0 (3, 5, 13) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Malta  | 15 (24) | 5 (24) | 10 (13) | NA/10/10/10/10  
Mexico  | 10 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 20, 22) | 15 (13, 16, 22) | 10/10/10/10/10  
Morocco  | 15 | 10 | 15 | NA/10/10/10/10  
Netherlands  | 15 | 5 (20, 23) | 0 (24) | NA/0/0/0/0  
New Zealand  | 15 (18) | 5 (18, 20) | 10 (5, 13, 17, 24) | NA/5/5/5/5  
Norway  | 15 | 15 | 10 | NA/0/0/NA/0  
Pakistan  | 30 | 15 | 30 | NA/0/0/NA/0  
Philippines  | 25 | 20 | 15 | NA/15/15/15/15  
Poland  | 15 | 5 | 0 | NA/10/10/10/10  
Portugal  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 10 (4, 13) | 10/10/10/10/10  
Romania  | 10 | 10 | 10 | NA/15/15/10/10  
Russia  | 10 (14) | 5 (14) | 0 (13) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Slovak Republic  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 0 (13) | 10/10/10/0/0  
Slovenia  | 15 (18) | 5 (18) | 5 (13) | NA/5/5/5/5  
South Africa  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 0 (5, 13) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Spain  | 15 (18, 22) | 5 (18, 20, 22, 24) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/0/0 (9, 24)  
Sri Lanka  | 15 (23) | 15 (23) | 10 (5, 13) | 5/10/10/10/10  
Sweden  | 15 (18, 20) | 5 (18, 20, 22) | 0 (5, 13, 24) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Switzerland  | 15 (8) | 5 (8) | 0 (13) | NA/0/0/NA/0  
Thailand  | 15 (8) | 10 (8) | 15 (11, 13) | 8/15/15/5/5  
Trinidad & Tobago  | 30 | 30 | 30 | NA/15/15/NA/0   
Tunisia  | 20 (8) | 14 (8) | 15 | 10 (12)/15/15/15/15  
Turkey  | 20 (8) | 15 (8) | 15 (5, 11, 13) | 5/10/10/10/10  
Ukraine  | 15 (14) | 5 (14) | 0 | NA/10/10/10/10  
United Kingdom  | 15 (18, 21) | 5 (18, 20, 21) | 0 (5, 13, 21) | NA/0/0/0/0  
Venezuela  | 15 (18) | 5 (18) | 10 (5, 13, 17) | 5/10/10/10/10  
Notes
a This table was initially adapted from Table 1 of the IRS Tax Treaty Tables, _available at_.
b The exemption or reduction in rate of source-state taxation of dividends, interest, and royalties generally does not apply if the recipient has a PE in the United States and the property giving rise to the income is attributable to such PE. Under certain treaties, the exemption or reduction in rate also does not apply if the property producing the income is attributable to a fixed base in the United States from which the recipient performs independent personal services.
Under US domestic law, for the purpose of applying any exemption from, or reduction of, any tax provided by any US tax treaty with respect to income that is not effectively connected with the conduct of a US trade or business, a foreign person shall generally be deemed not to have a US PE at any time during the tax year.
c Please note the tax rates and associated footnotes appearing in the 'Royalties' column in the table address five types of royalties. These five are (i) industrial equipment royalties, (ii) know-how/other industrial royalties, (iii) patent royalties, (iv) motion picture and television royalties, and (v) copyright royalties. The slashes '/' between each figure and associated footnote(s) are meant to demarcate these five types of royalties. For rates indicated as 'NA', if the enterprise earns income from the leasing of equipment in the conduct of a trade or business, it is covered by the Business Profits article. For passive income from the leasing of equipment, and not in the Royalty article, it is covered by the Other Income article, if any.
  1. Except in certain circumstances, a dividend paid by a domestic corporation to a foreign person is US-source income that is subject to US tax at the statutory rate.
  2. Dividends paid by a domestic subsidiary to a foreign parent corporation that has the required percentage of stock ownership are subject to a reduced rate, usually 5%, and, under some treaties (see footnote 20), if certain additional requirements are met, WHT may be eliminated entirely. In some cases, the income of the subsidiary must meet certain requirements (e.g. a certain percentage of its total income must consist of income other than dividends and interest).
  3. The exemption or reduction in rate does not apply if the recipient is engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a PE that is in the United States. However, if the income is not effectively connected with a trade or business in the United States of the recipient under US domestic law, the recipient will be considered as not having a PE in the United States to apply the reduced treaty rate to that item of income.
  4. Interest determined with reference to the profits of the issuer or one of its associated enterprises typically is taxed at 15%.
  5. Contingent interest that does not qualify as portfolio interest is taxed (i) as a dividend in the case of Australia, Bangladesh, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, Sweden, and Turkey or (ii) at a rate of 15% (10% for Bulgaria, Spain, and Japan; 30% for Austria, Germany, and Switzerland). 
  6. The exemption applies only to interest on credits, loans, and other indebtedness connected with the financing of trade between the United States and the CIS member. It does not include interest from the conduct of a general banking business.
  7. The tax rates in the US treaty with the former USSR still apply to the following countries: Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan.
  8. The rate in column 2 applies to dividends paid by a regulated investment company (RIC) or a real estate investment trust (REIT). However, that rate applies to dividends paid by a REIT only if the beneficial owner of the dividends is an individual holding less than a 10% interest (25% in the case of Portugal, Thailand, and Tunisia) in the REIT.
  9. The rate is 0% for royalties received in consideration for the use of, or the right to use, containers in international traffic. With respect to payments in consideration for copyrights of scientific work, whether a payment is in consideration for a copyright of a scientific work will be determined in accordance with the domestic law of the source state.
  10. The rate is 5% for interest (i) beneficially owned by a bank or other financial institution (including an insurance company) or (ii) paid due to a sale on credit of any industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment, or of any merchandise to an enterprise.
  11. The rate is 10% if the interest is paid on a loan granted by a bank or similar financial institution. For Thailand, the 10% rate also applies to interest from an arm's-length sale on credit of equipment, merchandise, or services.
  12. This is the rate for royalties for the use of, or the right to use, industrial, commercial, and scientific equipment. The rate for royalties for information concerning industrial, commercial, and scientific know-how is subject to the rate in column 5 ('other royalties').
  13. Exemption or reduced rate does not apply to an excess inclusion for a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC).
  14. The rate in column 2 applies to dividends paid by a RIC. Dividends paid by a REIT are subject to a 30% rate.
  15. An election can be made to treat this interest income as if it were industrial and commercial profits taxable under article 8 of this treaty.
  16. The rate is 4.9% for interest derived from (i) loans granted by banks and insurance companies and (ii) bonds or securities that are regularly and substantially traded on a recognised securities market. The rate is 10% for interest not described in the preceding sentence and paid (i) by banks or (ii) by the buyer of machinery and equipment to the seller due to a sale on credit
  17. Interest received by a financial institution is tax exempt. For Venezuela, the rate is 4.95% if the interest is beneficially owned by a financial institution (including an insurance company).
  18. The rate in column 2 applies to dividends paid by a RIC or REIT. However, that rate applies to dividends paid by a REIT only if the beneficial owner of the dividends is (i) an individual (or pension fund, in the case of France or New Zealand) holding not more than a 10% interest in the REIT, (ii) a person holding not more than 5% of any class of the REIT's stock and the dividends are paid on stock that is publicly traded, or (iii) a person holding not more than a 10% interest in the REIT and the REIT is diversified.
  19. Interest paid or accrued on the sale of goods, merchandise, or services between enterprises is exempt. Interest paid or accrued on the sale on credit of industrial, commercial, or scientific equipment is exempt.
  20. Dividends received from an 80%-owned corporate subsidiary are exempt if certain conditions (including a holding period requirement) are met. For Japan, this figure is 50%.
  21. Exemption does not apply to amounts paid under, or as part of, a conduit arrangement.
  22. Amounts paid to a pension fund that are not derived from the carrying on of a business, directly or indirectly, by the fund are exempt. This includes amounts paid by a REIT only if the conditions in footnote 18 are met. For Sweden, to be entitled to the exemption, the pension fund must not sell or make a contract to sell the holding from which the dividend is derived within two months of the date the pension fund acquired the holding.
  23. The rate applies to dividends paid by a REIT only if the beneficial owner of the dividends is (i) an individual holding less than a 10% interest (25% in the case of the Netherlands) in the REIT, (ii) a person holding not more than 5% of any class of the REIT's stock and the dividends are paid on stock that is publicly traded, or (iii) a person holding not more than a 10% interest in the REIT and the REIT is diversified. 
  24. Where an enterprise of a contracting state derives income from the other contracting state, and the income is attributable to the enterprise’s PE in a third jurisdiction, such income will be subject to a 15% rate if the combined tax actually paid with respect to such income in the resident state and the third jurisdiction is less than 60% (50% in the case of the US-Luxembourg and US-South Africa tax treaties) of the tax that would have been payable by the enterprise in the residence state had such income (i) been earned in the resident state and (ii) not been attributable to a PE in a third jurisdiction. Generally, this limitation applies to interest, royalties, and dividends.
  25. This treaty has been terminated effective for amounts paid or credited on or after 1 January 2024 and for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024.




# United States
## Corporate - Other issues
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
## Tax accounting
The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) addresses financial accounting and reporting matters under US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP). ASC 740, _Income Taxes_ , addresses how companies should account for and report the effects of taxes based on income.
Financial statements of US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registrants are required to be prepared in accordance with US GAAP. Foreign private issuers may include in their filings with the SEC financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) without reconciliation to US GAAP.
## Corporate reorganisations
In general, a corporate reorganisation involving a merger, acquisition, or consolidation is a taxable event under the general recognition provisions of the Code. However, a corporate reorganisation that meets certain statutory and judicial requirements may qualify as a tax-free transaction, with gain or loss generally not recognised at the corporate or shareholder levels. In those cases, gains and losses are deferred to a later date through carryover basis and holding period mechanisms.
## Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA)
FATCA was enacted in 2010 to prevent and detect offshore tax evasion by US persons. FATCA seeks to compel disclosure of US persons' ownership of foreign accounts, interests, and assets. While the name may imply that FATCA is directed at financial institutions, many global companies outside the financial services industry may be affected if they have entities in their worldwide network falling under the purview of FATCA, or have operational areas that make or receive payments subject to FATCA.
Multinational enterprises that are withholding agents were already obligated to report, withhold, and document payees, but FATCA requires changes to these activities. FATCA mandates that multinational businesses evaluate entity payees differently, engage in withholding on certain gross US-source payments, as well as report different information to the IRS. Payee identification applies both to entities within the enterprise and to third parties. Prior to opening financial accounts, financial institutions will require FATCA classification information. As a result, MNEs should document the FATCA classification of all entities that own a financial account; this will reduce delays in opening accounts and prevent unnecessary withholding.
Note that proposed regulations eliminate the obligation to impose FATCA withholding on gross proceeds from the sale of assets that produce US-source interest or dividends. Treasury and the IRS cite complexity and the impact of FATCA Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs) on compliance as reducing the need to impose withholding on gross proceeds. Withholding agents are permitted to rely on the proposed regulations immediately (Reg-132881-17 published December 2018). Note that part of those regulations were finalised in TD 9890, 2 January 2020.
The withholding provisions of FATCA began 1 July 2014. Compliance with FATCA required many organisations to make changes to existing systems and processes across business units and regions, policies and day-to-day practices, and new tasks, such as registering with the IRS.
To mitigate certain foreign legal impediments to FATCA compliance, IGAs were negotiated between the US Treasury and foreign governments. Under certain IGAs, information will be exchanged directly between the IRS and local governments. This obligates financial institutions in IGA jurisdictions to report information to their government that may not have been required or permitted in the past. The local governments then share this information with the IRS, and, in exchange, the IRS shares certain banking information with the participating jurisdictions.
Assessing FATCA’s impact will require identifying whether an IGA applies to the entity or payment stream at issue. Provisions in the final FATCA regulations or, if applicable, an IGA that provides more favourable results may be utilised. IGAs have increased the complexity of the process, due in part to the multiple paths to compliance (e.g. regulations or an IGA). The regulators have focused on having consistent requirements in each IGA, but there are noticeable differences in the agreements.
## Common Reporting Standard (CRS) and Multilateral Instrument (MLI)
The OECD, on 21 July 2014, released the Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information in Tax Matters, including the Commentary on the Common Reporting Standard (CRS). CRS seeks to establish the automatic exchange of tax information as the new global standard. The automatic exchange of information involves the systematic and periodic transmission of extensive taxpayer information from the country in which a taxpayer's financial accounts are located to that taxpayer’s country of residence. As of 30 July 2020, the United States has not adopted the CRS.
The Multilateral Convention to Implement Tax Treaty Related Measures to Prevent Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) (the Multilateral Instrument or MLI) entered into force on 1 July 2018. The MLI covers recommendations from the OECD BEPS project that affect double tax treaties (DTTs). This applies both to various minimum standards and some additional recommendations. The MLI was developed under BEPS Action 15 and encompasses recommendations for Action 2 (hybrid mismatches), Action 6 (treaty abuse), Action 7 (permanent establishments), and Action 14 (dispute resolution). The United States is one of the countries that were part of the post-BEPS discussions on the MLI but have not signed the MLI. These countries, including the United States, will be expected to meet the BEPS minimum standards in alternative ways (e.g. via bilateral agreement or protocol).
## US possessions
Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the US Virgin Islands have their own independent tax departments. Accordingly, they have their own rules. _See the Puerto Rico summary for more information about taxation._


# United States
## Corporate - Income determination
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
## Inventory valuation
Inventories generally are stated at either cost or the lower of cost or market. Items may be deemed to be sold on a first in first out (FIFO) or last in first out (LIFO) basis, or through specific identification. LIFO may be elected for tax purposes on a cost basis only and, if used for tax, must also be used in financial reports issued to shareholders and creditors. The LIFO method is particularly beneficial in times of high inflation; however, many taxpayers do not use it because of the financial reporting consistency requirement. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) do not permit use of LIFO.
The uniform capitalisation (UNICAP) rules require taxpayers to capitalise the direct and indirect costs of producing property or acquiring property for resale to inventory and to the basis of self-created property. Capitalisable costs include certain costs that might be expensed as current operating costs for financial reporting (e.g. a portion of general and administrative costs, cost variances) and differences between book and tax costs (i.e. the excess of tax depreciation over financial statement depreciation).
At the end of the tax year, costs allocable to inventory that is deemed sold is subtracted from gross receipts as costs of goods sold to compute gross income. Amounts included in cost of goods sold are not subject to the BEAT unless the payments are made to an ‘expatriated entity'.
## Capital gains
In general, gains or losses on the sale or exchange of capital assets held for more than 12 months are treated as long-term capital gains or losses. Gains or losses on the sale or exchange of capital assets held for 12 months or less are treated as short-term capital gains or losses. The excess of net long-term capital gain over net short-term capital loss is considered net capital gain. Capital losses are allowed only as an offset to capital gains. For corporations, an excess of capital losses over capital gains in a tax year generally may be carried back three years and carried forward five years to be used to offset capital gains. Under current law, the tax rate for corporate capital gain is the same as ordinary income.
For dispositions of personal property and certain non-residential real property used in a trade or business, net gains are first taxable as ordinary income to the extent of the depreciation/cost recovery, with any remainder generally treated as capital gain. For other trade or business real property, net gains generally are taxed as ordinary income to the extent that the depreciation or cost recovery claimed exceeds the straight-line amount, with any remainder treated as capital gain.
An exception to capital gain treatment exists to the extent that losses on business assets were recognised in prior years. A net loss from the sale of business assets is treated as an ordinary loss. Future gains, however, will be treated as ordinary income to the extent of such recharacterised losses recognised in the five immediately preceding years.
## Dividend income
A US corporation generally may deduct 50% of dividends received from other US corporations in determining taxable income. The dividends received deduction (DRD) is increased from 50% to 65% if the recipient of the dividend distribution owns at least 20% but less than 80% of the distributing corporation. Generally, dividend payments between US corporations that are members of the same affiliated group (_see the section_) are excluded from gross income. With minor exceptions, a US corporation may not deduct dividends it receives from a foreign corporation. 
A 100% DRD is provided for the foreign-source portion of dividends received by a US corporation from certain foreign corporations with respect to which it is a 10% US shareholder. 
### Stock dividends
A US corporation can distribute a tax-free dividend of common stock proportionately to all common stock shareholders. If the right to elect cash is given, all distributions to all shareholders are taxable as dividend income whether cash or stock is taken. There are exceptions to these rules, and extreme caution must be observed before making such distributions.
## Interest income
Interest income is generally includible in the determination of taxable income.
## Rental income
Rental income is generally includible in the determination of taxable income.
## Royalty income
Royalty income is generally includible in the determination of taxable income.
## Partnership income
The income (loss) of a partnership passes through to its partners so that the partnership itself is not subject to tax. Thus, each partner generally includes in taxable income its distributive share of the partnership's taxable income (or loss).
## Foreign income (Subpart F income) of US taxpayers
In the case of controlled foreign companies (CFCs), certain types of undistributed income are taxed currently to certain US shareholders (Subpart F income). More specifically, in situations in which a foreign corporation is a CFC, every US shareholder owning 10% or greater of the total value of shares of all classes of stock or the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of such a foreign corporation (US shareholder) must include in gross income its _pro rata_ share of the Subpart F income earned by the CFC, regardless of whether the income is distributed to the US shareholders.
With certain exceptions, Subpart F income generally includes passive income and other income that is readily movable from one taxing jurisdiction to another (i.e. income that is separated from the activities that produced the value in the goods or services generating the income). In particular, Subpart F income includes insurance income, foreign base company income, and certain income relating to international boycotts and other violations of public policy.
There are several subcategories of foreign base company income, the most common of which are foreign personal holding company income (FPHCI), foreign base company sales income (FBCSI), and foreign base company services income (FBCSvI). FPHCI is passive income (e.g. dividends, interest, royalties, and capital gains). FBCSI and FBCSvI are sales and services income earned in cross-border, related-person transactions. There are a number of common exceptions that may apply to exclude certain income from the definition of Subpart F income, including exceptions relating to highly taxed income, certain payments between related parties, and active business operations.
In situations in which the US shareholder is a domestic corporation, the domestic corporate shareholder may claim a foreign tax credit (discussed below) for foreign taxes paid or accrued by a CFC. Furthermore, certain rules track the earnings and profits of a CFC that have been included in the income of US shareholders as Subpart F income to ensure that such amounts (known as previously taxed income or PTI) are not taxed again when they are actually distributed to the US shareholders.
P.L. 115-97 also requires a US shareholder to include in income the 'global intangible low-taxed income' (GILTI) of its CFCs, effective for tax years of foreign corporations beginning after 2017. Despite the name, this provision is not limited to low-taxed income from intangible assets. Rather, it applies to the shareholder’s _pro rata_ share of the CFC’s total net income (apart from certain specified categories, such as Subpart F income and income effectively connected with a US trade or business), less a deemed 10% return on the CFC’s tangible assets.
The full amount of GILTI is includible in the US shareholder’s income, and generally is then reduced through a 50% deduction in tax years beginning after 31 December 2017 and before 1 January 2026, and a 37.5% deduction in tax years beginning after 31 December 2025. A corporate taxpayer generally also can claim a credit for 80% of the foreign taxes associated with GILTI.


# United States
## Corporate - Taxes on corporate income
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
US tax reform legislation enacted on 22 December 2017 (P.L. 115-97) moved the United States from a ‘worldwide’ system of taxation towards a ‘territorial’ system of taxation. Among other things, P.L. 115-97 permanently reduced the 35% CIT rate on resident corporations to a flat 21% rate for tax years beginning after 31 December 2017.
US taxation of income earned by non-US persons depends on whether the income has a nexus with the United States and the level and extent of the non-US person's presence in the United States.
Prior to enactment of P.L. 115-97, a non-US corporation engaged in a US trade or business was taxed at a 35% US CIT rate on net income from US sources effectively connected with that business (i.e. effectively connected income or ECI). However, as noted above, P.L. 115-97 significantly revised the federal tax regime. P.L. 115-97 permanently reduced the 35% CIT rate on ECI to a 21% flat rate for tax years beginning after 31 December 2017. Certain US-source income (e.g. interest, dividends, and royalties) not effectively connected with a non-US corporation’s trade or business continues to be taxed on a gross basis at 30% unless reduced by treaty.
## Alternative minimum tax (AMT)
The Inflation Reduction Act, P.L. 117-169 (IRA) enacted a new corporate AMT, effective for tax years beginning after 2022, based on financial statement income (corporate alternative minimum tax or CAMT). The CAMT is a 15% minimum tax on adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) of C corporations. The CAMT increases a taxpayer’s tax to the extent that the tentative minimum tax exceeds regular tax plus base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT).
AFSI determines whether a corporation is an applicable corporation subject to tax as well as the amount of the tax. In general, a taxpayer is an applicable corporation if its average annual AFSI over a three-tax-year period exceeds USD 1 billion. A corporation that is a member of a foreign-parented multinational group must apply a two-part test. It is an applicable corporation if (i) the three-year average AFSI of all members of the group exceeds USD 1 billion and (ii) the three-year average AFSI of US members of the group (and disregarded entities owned by members of the group), US trades or business of foreign group members that are not subsidiaries of US members, and foreign subsidiaries of US members exceeds USD 100 million.
Numerous adjustments are made to financial statement income to determine AFSI, and these rules also differ for purely domestic corporations and corporations that are part of a consolidated group with a foreign parent.
When a taxpayer pays CAMT because tentative minimum tax exceeds regular tax plus BEAT, the taxpayer will generate a minimum tax credit, which may be carried forward indefinitely and claimed against regular tax in future years (to the extent regular tax exceeds CAMT plus BEAT). The CAMT does not limit the general business credit, which corporate taxpayers may fully utilise against both their regular tax liability and the CAMT. 
The IRA also added a corporate AMT foreign tax credit (FTC), which is available to an applicable corporation that claims an FTC for the tax year. The AMT FTC reduces 15% of a taxpayer’s AFSI to arrive at the tentative minimum tax.
Treasury and the IRS on 12 September 2023 released Notice 2023-64, providing additional guidance on the application of the CAMT. The Notice clarifies key issues while requesting comments on a number of topics to be addressed in future guidance.
## S corporations
Corporations with 100 or fewer eligible shareholders, none of whom may be corporations, that meet certain other requirements may elect to be taxed under Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC or 'the Code') and are thus known as S corporations. S corporations are taxed in a manner similar, but not identical, to partnerships (i.e. all tax items [e.g. income, deductions] flow through to the owners of the entity). Thus, S corporations generally are not subject to US federal income tax.
## Gross transportation income taxes
Foreign corporations and non-resident alien individuals are subject to a yearly 4% tax on their US-source gross transportation income (USSGTI), which has an exception for certain income treated as effectively connected with a US trade or business. Transportation income is any income derived from, or in connection with, (i) the use (or hiring or leasing for use) of a vessel or aircraft, or (ii) the performance of services directly related to the use of a vessel or aircraft.
## Base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT)
P.L. 115-97 created a new US federal tax called the ‘base erosion and anti-abuse tax' (BEAT). P.L. 115-97 targeted US tax-base erosion by imposing an additional corporate tax liability on corporations (other than regulated investment companies [RICs], real estate investment trusts [REITs], or S corporations) that, together with their affiliates, have average annual gross receipts for the three-year period ending with the preceding tax year of at least USD 500 million and that make certain base-eroding payments to related foreign persons during the tax year of 3% (2% for certain banks and securities dealers) or more of all their deductible expenses apart from certain exceptions. The most notable of these exceptions are the NOL deduction, the new dividends received deduction (DRD) for foreign-source dividends, the new deduction for foreign-derived intangible income (FDII) and the deduction relating to the new category of global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI), qualified derivative payments defined in the provision, and certain payments for services.
The BEAT is imposed to the extent that 10% (5% for 2018) of the taxpayer’s ‘modified taxable income’ (generally, US taxable income determined without regard to any base-eroding tax benefit or the base-erosion percentage of the NOL deduction) exceeds the taxpayer’s regular tax liability net of most tax credits. The above percentages are changed to 11% and 6%, respectively, for certain banks and securities dealers.
A base-eroding payment generally is any amount paid or accrued by the taxpayer to a related foreign person that is deductible or to acquire property subject to depreciation or amortisation, or for reinsurance payments. The category also includes certain payments by ‘expatriated entities’ subject to the anti-inversion rules of Section 7874.
The provision is effective for base-erosion payments paid or accrued in tax years beginning after 31 December 2017. For tax years beginning after 31 December 2025, the percentage of modified taxable income that is compared against the regular tax liability increases to 12.5% (13.5% for certain banks and securities dealers) and unfavourably requires all credits to be applied in determining the US corporation’s regular tax liability. Special rules apply for banks, insurance companies, and ‘expatriated entities'.
## State and local income taxes
CIT rates vary from state to state and generally range from 1% to 10% (although some states impose no income tax). The most common taxable base is federal taxable income, which is modified by state provisions and generally is apportioned to a state on the basis of an apportionment formula consisting of one or more of the following: tangible assets and rental expense, sales and other receipts, and payroll. Many states are moving away from a three-factor formula in favour of a one-factor receipts apportionment methodology. 


# United States
## Corporate - Other taxes
Last reviewed - 13 August 2024
## Sales taxes
No provisions exist for a sales tax or value-added tax (VAT) at the federal level; however, sales and use taxes constitute a major revenue source for the 45 states that impose such taxes and the District of Columbia. Sales and use tax rates vary from state to state and generally range from 2.9% to 7.25% at the state level. Many states also allow a 'local option' that permits local jurisdictions, such as cities and counties, to impose an additional percentage on top of the state-level tax and to keep the related revenues.
In general, a sales tax is a tax applied to the retail sale of tangible personal property and certain digital products and enumerated services. Although the form of the tax may vary, it is usually imposed directly upon the receipts from the retail sale of the taxable item. The person engaged in the business of making retail sales of the taxable item generally collects the sales tax from the purchaser and remits such amounts to the state. The use tax complements the sales tax and is usually assessed on purchases made out of state and brought into the jurisdiction for use, storage, or consumption. Typically, either a sales tax or a use tax can be assessed on a transaction, but not both.
The states generally impose a sales tax collection and remission liability on a seller once a minimum threshold is met with respect to either the number of sales transactions into or within a state or the dollar amount of sales into or within a state.
Liability for state and local sales taxes was governed by a physical presence nexus standard prior to the US Supreme Court's decision (21 June 2018). That decision voided the physical presence nexus standard and upheld South Dakota's statutory nexus standard of delivery into the state of more than USD 100,000 of sales or 200 or more transactions. Since the decision, most states that impose sales taxes have adopted similar standards. Some states, including South Dakota, have repealed the threshold based on number of transactions, leaving only the receipts threshold to determine whether a collection obligation exists.
## Customs duties and import tariffs
All goods imported into the United States are subject to US Customs entry requirements and are dutiable or duty-free in accordance with their classification under the applicable items in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. The tariff classification also identifies eligibility for special programs and free trade agreement preferential duty rates. Aside from customs duties, which are relatively constant or declining, the President has authority under US law to impose tariffs in certain cases (e.g., to address national security concerns).
When goods are dutiable on an 'ordinary' basis, _ad valorem_ , specific, or compound duty rates may be assessed. An _ad valorem_ duty rate, which is the type of duty mechanism most often applied, identifies the percentage of tax that will be assessed on the value of the merchandise, such as 7% _ad valorem_. A specific duty rate is a specified amount per unit, unit of weight, or other quantity, such as 6.8 cents per dozen. A compound duty rate is a combination of both an _ad valorem_ rate and a specific rate, such as 0.8 cents per kilo plus 8% _ad valorem_. In addition to ordinary duties, select products also may be subject to punitive tariffs, including antidumping and countervailing duties, that are imposed in response to specific trading conditions, at individually determined rates, and for specified time periods. In such cases, the punitive tariffs are assessed in addition to the ordinary duties. Customs requires that the value of the imported goods be properly declared, in accordance with US Customs regulations, regardless of the dutiable status of the merchandise.
Liability for the payment of duty and other customs fees becomes fixed at the time an entry is filed with US Customs and Border Protection (CBP), although the amount of duty owed may change subsequently if any of the information declared on entry is later determined to be erroneous. The obligation for payment is upon the person or entity in whose name the entry is filed, the Importer of Record (IoR).
## Excise taxes
Excise taxes (including retail excise taxes) are generally imposed by the federal and state governments on a wide range of goods and activities, including gasoline, kerosene, and diesel fuel used for transportation, air transportation, wagering, foreign insurance, ozone depleting chemicals (or products manufactured using ozone depleting chemicals), superfund taxes, manufacturing/importing of specified goods (e.g. certain sporting goods, tires, firearms and ammunition, alcohol, and tobacco), and selling certain goods at retail (e.g. heavy vehicles, trailers, bodies, and chassis). _See the Environmental tax section below for further detail regarding the excise taxes levied on ozone depleting chemicals (or products manufactured using ozone depleting chemicals), among other goods and activities_.
The excise tax rates are as varied as the goods and activities upon which they are levied. For example, a federal excise tax of 7.5% is levied on domestic commercial air passenger transportation, whereas the federal excise tax imposed on motor fuel generally is 18.3 cents per gallon of gasoline (plus 0.1 cents per gallon Leaking Underground Storage Tank [LUST] tax) and 24.3 cents per gallon of diesel fuel (plus 0.1 cents per gallon LUST tax). The federal excise tax imposed on the first retail sale, lease, or use of heavy vehicles, trailers, bodies, chassis, etc. is 12%. These taxes usually are imposed on the manufacturer, importer, retailer, or provider of the goods and activities and then passed through to the purchaser.
## Property taxes
Many states and local governments impose a variety of property taxes on real property. Most states also impose a tax on business personal property.
## Stamp taxes
Stamp taxes are not generally relevant at the federal level, except for the federal stamp tax imposed on the transfer of National Firearms Act (NFA) firearms. State and local governments frequently impose stamp taxes at the time of officially recording a transaction involving real property (commonly referred to as transfer taxes). Such taxes generally are based upon the value of the real property being transferred. The tax generally is imposed on the direct sale of real property, but some state and local governments also impose such a tax on the sale of a controlling interest of real property, which is the sale of a direct or indirect ownership of the real property. Many state and local governments also impose stamp taxes on certain goods made available for sale in the respective jurisdiction, like cigarettes and other tobacco products.
## Accumulated earnings tax
Corporations (other than S corporations, domestic and foreign personal holding companies, corporations exempt from tax under Subchapter F of the Code, and passive foreign investment companies) accumulating earnings and profits for the purpose of avoiding shareholder personal income tax (PIT) are subject to a penalty tax in addition to any other tax that may be applicable. The accumulated earnings tax is equal to 20% of 'accumulated taxable income'. Generally, accumulated taxable income is the excess of taxable income with certain adjustments, including a deduction for regular income taxes, over the dividends paid deduction and the accumulated earnings credit. Note that a corporation can justify the accumulation of income, and avoid tax, based on its reasonable business needs.
## Personal holding company tax
US corporations and certain foreign corporations that receive substantial 'passive income' and are 'closely held' may be subject to personal holding company tax. The personal holding company tax is 20% of undistributed personal holding company income and is levied in addition to the regular tax.
## Payroll taxes 
Employers generally are subject to federal unemployment tax (FUTA) of 6% on the first USD 7,000 of wages paid to employees meeting certain criteria, with potential reduction of up to 5.4% for state unemployment taxes. For 2024, employers also are subject to social security tax of 6.2% on the first USD 168,600 (up from USD 160,200 in 2023) of wages paid to employees and Medicare tax of 1.45% on all wages (collectively, FICA taxes). For 2024, social security tax is imposed on the first USD 168,600 of wages paid to employees. Employers are required to withhold an equivalent amount of FICA taxes from employee wages, federal income tax at graduated rates, and Additional Medicare tax of 0.9% on wages in excess of USD 200,000. In addition, states may impose state income tax, state unemployment tax, workers' compensation insurance tax, and other state-level benefit requirements at varying rates depending on state law and the nature of employees' activities. The federal supplemental withholding rates, when applicable, are at 22% on supplemental income below USD 1 million in the aggregate and 37% on supplemental income in excess of USD 1 million in the aggregate for 2024 and 2023.
## Environmental taxes
Importers, manufacturers, and sellers of ozone-depleting chemicals (ODCs), or imported products manufactured using ODCs, are subject to environmental taxes calculated per weight of the ODC. These taxes are reported on Forms 6627 and 720. The ODC tax on imported taxable products is determined under an exact method by weight or via the table method based on the listed product (such table is provided in Reg. sec. 52.4682-3(f)(6)). If the weight cannot be determined, the tax is 1% of the entry value of the product. There also is a tax on crude oil and petroleum products (the rate of tax is the combined oil spill liability trust fund tax rate and the hazardous substance superfund financing rate). The tax is imposed on operators of refineries that receive crude oil and petroleum products entered into the United States for consumption, use, or warehousing.
The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, enacted on 15 November 2021, reinstated certain chemical excise taxes. These excise taxes are commonly referred to as 'Superfund' taxes and are imposed on the first sale or use of certain chemicals and substances. The taxes were reinstated effective 1 July 2022 (these taxes had previously expired in 1995). In general, Section 4661 imposes on manufacturers, importers, and producers a per ton federal excise tax on the first sale or use of 42 enumerated chemicals ('taxable chemicals'). Section 4671 imposes taxes on an importer’s sale or use of a list of specified substances ('taxable substances') that are produced using these taxable chemicals. The taxes are reported on Forms 6627 and 720, and rates of tax on taxable chemicals range from USD 0.44 to USD 9.74 per short ton (2,000 lbs.). Taxable substances are taxed based upon their underlying chemicals. The taxes currently expire on 31 December 2031.
## Other state and municipal taxes
Other taxes that states may impose, in lieu of or in addition to taxes based on income, include franchise taxes and taxes on the capital of a corporation. State and municipal taxes are deductible expenses for federal income tax purposes.


