# Mexico
## Individual - Significant developments
Last reviewed - 10 February 2025
During September 2020, an appeal court decision in Mexico City opened the possibility for foreign individuals leaving Mexico to seek a refund of part of their social security contributions that relate to pension and workers housing. The appeal court decision is a binding precedent only within the Mexico City area, although appeal courts in other jurisdictions within Mexico and the relevant authorities may follow the same criteria.
On 9 December 2020, a reform that regulates and promotes teleworking as a form of labour organisation was approved, establishing rights and obligations for employers and employees. This reform entered into force on 12 January 2021.
On 16 December 2020, a decree was published that amends, adds, and eliminates some tax provisions of the Social Security Law and Retirement Savings System Law. These apply from 1 January 2023.
Starting 1 June 2020, the income tax law establishes specific rules for collecting tax in relation to individuals who provide services via the digital economy as apps for transportation services, short-term rentals, and selling goods and services via digital marketplaces.
As of 2017, the Measurement and Actualisation Unit (UMA in Spanish) replaces the minimum wage in tax calculations, limits, exemptions, etc. as a unit of indexation. The UMA that corresponds to 2025 is 113.14Mexican pesos (MXN) per day.
On 1 May 2024, a decree was published regarding the employment subsidy, which came into force on the same date. The subsidy amount is determined based on the employee's salary and a progressive tax rate established by the government; such subsidy decreases as the salary increases, and it is credited for the income tax withheld to employees with low-income by reducing their tax burden, as this subsidy is provided to employees who earn a salary below a threshold of MXN 10,171 on a monthly basis for 2025.
